# 40. Using STOCK PROFILES to Maximize Profits in a HOT Market
# id=o9MvxdBiuSY (whisper base.en)

In today's episode, I'm going to walk you through how I was able to make over $397,000 in one month of day trading. Now my name is Ross Cameron and I'll be the first to tell you that my results are not typical. I've been doing this for a very long time. In fact, I funded my first account with real money over 20 years ago. There's no question that getting to where I'm at takes a lot of hard work and you know what? There's a lot of people that put a lot of hard work in the trading that still don't get here and the reason in my opinion is one of two reasons. Number one is because they lack a system, a process, and a strategy that they can rely on to follow every single day to help them understand the right stocks to trade, where to get in, where to get out, and how to manage risk. Now the second reason a lot of people won't get to where I'm at is because they lack discipline and they lack the ability to have emotional regulation which is that when they have a big red day, they spiral. And so what happens for a lot of beginner traders and this is something that I went through myself is that you'll have a period of progression here and then in one day you'll start to lose a little. You make a little bit back, you lose a little bit more, you make a little back, you lose a little bit more, and you end up having this big snowball where over the course of a couple days you might give back months of progress. So it actually kind of looks like for a lot of beginner traders, this is the equity curve. We've got slow progress, big loss, slow progress, big loss, and you just keeps going down because you're net negative. So in today's episode, I want to walk you through how I've approached things a little bit differently and why they've resulted in me having at times such impressive months. Now this month is worthy of doing a full episode on because it is my best month of the year. So far the year is not over. Now something interesting happened this month. We ended up having a stock that I would say was sort of a spark that ignited this round of really hot momentum. What happened was this one stock went up over 2,000% in one day. And from that point on, this month has been on fire. Now the beginning of the month, to be honest, those first few days that first week was a little bit slow until we had that catalyst. Let's go ahead and jump onto the screen share. I'm going to actually pull up a slide deck here that I put together for this class. So, and by the way, my strategy calls for trading for about three hours a day. So this is really, it was an incredible month for me of day trading, one month of trading just under $400,000 of profit trading three hours a day. Again, I'll say it. My results are not typical. I don't want you to assume that you're going to watch a class like this and you're going to make $300,000 or $400,000 next month because of course that's not going to happen. What I do hope is that you can take some actionable steps that I'm going to share with you away from this class and you can implement them in your own trading. And hopefully you practice in a simulator and you can test out whether some of the techniques that I'm using actually help you find stocks trade and execute on those trades a little bit better learning to be a successful trader. It's all about making small steps, small incremental steps and trying to do everything you can to avoid those big spiral days where you give everything back. So we'll start with the broker statements because I know a lot of you guys are curious about this. Now some people will say, Ross, how much money did you have in your account to be able to make nearly $400,000? I started the month with $195,000 in the account. You can see right here, this is the equity that I had at the beginning of the month. Now about a month and a half prior to this, I had taken money out of my account. So I regularly take profit out of my account. And so usually my account has anywhere from $100,000 to well, right now, end of the month, $567,000, which is more than I need in my account right now. But one of the things that I've sort of recognized is that when I'm having a month like this where I'm having really big green days, it's better to have the money and maybe not need it than to need the money in my account for buying power and not have it. So right now I'm going to leave this in the account for the time being, it would allow me to take bigger positions, allow me to size up. And that's how during really hot markets, I can end up putting together back to back a big green month and potentially where the green months get bigger and bigger and bigger because I'm taking larger and larger position sizes. Certainly there's a limit to how far you can scale that, but it's definitely worth it for me. It's worth it. So this is the spark that ignited the momentum. The stock was drug. And it went, as you can see here, for about $2 a share all the way up to $60 and then it pulls back for two days and then it goes again from $24 up to nearly $80 a share. So what this ended up resulting in, well, so how did things change following this big move? All right. So you have a stock that goes up 2,000% and I'll hide my video here just so you can read this full slide. This is what changed. Number one, there were a lot of short sellers that blew up their accounts. There was no question about it. We saw it. There were people that lost a tremendous amount of money trying to short drug and it just kept going higher. It made no sense, but it kept going higher. And so shorts who got stubborn and kept adding and adding, they blew up their accounts. Their entire account was gone. So what that meant was shorts blew up accounts. That means most shorts who are still in the market are now sitting on the sidelines to be cautious. They're a little nervous about jumping in short on anything. And there's a lot of short sellers who are no longer in the market because they just had a blow up. There's some short sellers, however, who are out for revenge and they're on emotional hijack, which means they're going to fuel continued short squeezes by shorting everything that pops up, getting squeezed out until they finally capitulate. Now on the long side, long bias traders are feeling some degree of FOMO as you know, anyone would to see a stock go up 2,000%. Anyone who sees that will think, man, I could have would have should have, you know, wish I had made more money. I could have bought more size. I would have done this. And I felt the same way. You know, it's just natural. You see a stock make that kind of moving. You think, Oh, yeah, I should have done better. So longs are feeling a bit of FOMO longs therefore are more aggressive looking for the next one, the next stock to start to squeeze. And that means there's more volume coming into each stock that starts to pop up. So the moves are now amplified, volatility is increasing. And we have the phenomenon of sympathy momentum, which is that stocks are now showing strength simply because of the big move that we had on drug. If it hadn't been for that big move on drug, we probably wouldn't see the degree of momentum. We're seeing on some of these other names, but one starts and then the next one, the next one, the next one. So we call that sympathy momentum. This is a good example of an IVF. This is a stock that went from about 80 cents a share, as you can see here, all the way up to over $3 a share. These are huge percentage moves. These are massive. Here's another one. This one went from about, again, 40 cents a share up to $5 pulls back, comes back up. This was an after hours mover. So we ended up getting into this cycle where most of these big moves, and I'm going to walk you through in a second that there were some common denominators among these big moves. I was trying to figure out what is drug, you know, and maybe the other two that made big moves. What do they have in common? What's the similarity? Because what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to create sort of a profile of what I should be looking for for the next one, because that's recognizing a pattern. And once you recognize that pattern, boom, that's your ticket. So as tech, this is another one that made a huge move, VS. This one went from $1.50 to nearly $10 a share, just back to back huge moves. And so I was trading all of these moves and just catching that momentum. This is a stock that went from $2 a share to $19 a share in like 45 minutes, an unbelievable move. Here was another one. This one went from $5 to $17. And so we kept seeing these back to back big moves. In fact, we had this one day where there were five stocks on the scanner. They were all up over a hundred percent, a hundred percent, 125%, 336%, 370%, 504%, holy smokes. That is a hot market. All right. So what did these stocks have in common? How do we create a profile? Because that's ultimately what we're going to do. We're going to create a profile for the type of stock to have the potential to go up 100% or more, plus is better or more. So that's basically what we want to try to figure out is what does this look like? This is right now a little bit of a question mark. What's the profile? Because if we can figure out all of the nuances and details of the stock that made the big move, then maybe there'll be another one that meets 90% of these sort of criteria if we want to call it that or sort of just characteristics. And we say, all right, this one's really close, so it's one we should pay extra attention to. All right. So let me start to break down the anatomy of these stocks. So these are the biggest winners that I had of the month. And when we first had the move on drug, what I knew about drug was the following. So let's create the profile just for drug. So drug, well, I'll do it all in caps because it was a ticker. So tickers should go in caps drug and dollar sign in the middle for the cash tag. So this one had a float, which is the number of shares available to trade of approximately equals like 4.5 million shares, something like that. So 4.5 million shares was the float. What does the float represent? This is the supply. So that's the number of shares available to trade. Then we have demand characteristics. So number one, the relative volume RV on this one was it was crazy high. I have to go back to check it on the day I traded it, but it was at least a hundred times higher than average. So relative volume is the ratio of volume today relative to what's normal for that stock. And that stock normally trades on light volume. So when all of a sudden traded, you know, 50, 70 million shares of volume, that relative volume ratio goes crazy. So the relative volume ratio was super, super high. Okay, that makes sense. Now the percentage change was that it was plus 2,000 percent, which was really like, I mean, that's a huge percentage move. Now this one price began under 10, which I think is important. And in fact, the fact that it began as low as it did made it so it had bigger percentage change. In fact, this one, I mean, it began under, it was under $2, it was really low. So beginning cheap meant as soon as it hit $4, it was already up a hundred percent. And then it's hitting 6, 8, 10, and it's just like boom, boom, boom, 600%, 800%, 1,000%. So and then number five here was we had a catalyst. So there was a news event on this and all of these right here reflect demand. The news is what ultimately created the initial demand and the price being lower creates demand because it's an affordable stock, you know, Berkshire Hathaway or something like that, that's super expensive. People aren't going to trade it, but a lower price like this, stock people will like it. The big percentage move reflecting demand, high relative volume reflecting demand. So this is kind of the profile right here. So after seeing this really big move, I thought, okay, well, if that's the profile for drug, right, then let's say I see a stock that has sort of, you know, all of these features are basically the same. The relative volume is a hundred times, the float is about the same. Maybe it's old, maybe it's not a 2,000% yet. Maybe it's up only 50%, right? But if everything else is the same, then does this have the potential to make that big move? So that's where we're kind of saying, look, this is the, this is the profile of drug right here. And we've got the one, two, three, four, five, very specific features. And then this is, you know, possible stock, and we could do a several of them, but, you know, possible candidate number, number two. And we're thinking, well, how closely does this match? So one of the things I would also note here. So we had, just to go back, we had float of four, 4.5 million share float. We had price, you know, two to 10. We had relative volume of a 2,000% change on the day, relative volume was a hundred X, and then we had news. Now number six, this is also a biotech. All right, so biotech stocks, that's another sector that can be particularly juicy. Now, not every stock that was on my top wind list is going to be a biotech, but most of them are because that was the profile. So then you see a stock here that let's say it meets all of these, but the sector is energy, or it's like finance, banking, well, all of a sudden it's like, I don't know, is that really going to work? Does that really match this profile of what worked so well on drug, right? Drug was definitely biotech catalyst, and that's what sent it. So, you know, that's where I start to think about, all right, this is the profile of the big one that moved, and how closely does this line up. So after we had that big move on drug, we have this crazy squeeze that goes absolutely bananas, and I'm looking for stocks that meet that profile as closely as possible. So what I, and these are the results from the month for me. So ATNF ended up being my biggest winner. This is a stock that went just absolutely crazy. It was, I mean, a truly impressive move. So this one ended up going up, I'm trying to remember what the percentage was. I think it was something like 600 or 700%, it must have been, you know, it was just unbelievable move. So, drug makes this big move there, and then there were so many traders kind of sitting on the sidelines waiting for something similar, and what I knew I was looking for was a biotech stock that met these criteria as closely as possible. So what, how did an ATNF fit in? Well, ATNF is interesting because the float on ATNF, let's see, let me just double check it. 500,000 shares. So the float is 500,000 shares, which actually means the float is one-tenth. The level of supply is one-tenth of drug. So in theory, the same amount of volume could produce 10x the move because it's an imbalance between supply and demand that creates the move. So the price was the same, price was, you know, two, three dollars a share, ended up going up like 700%, relative volume ended up being up well over 100. It had a news catalyst, and it was a biotech stock. So what in here would have been a deal breaker? Well, the biotech was very, felt very important at that time because we're coming right off this profile of drug. So it felt very important, this felt pretty much mandatory, it needed to be a biotech, felt like it pretty much needed to have news. It felt like the price certainly couldn't be $200 a share, right? It had to be affordable. The float had to be lower. So these were pretty much mandatory. And I think because these lined up, that resulted in the volume coming in, which then gave us the percentage change. I think if this had had a float of 500 million shares, then the supply level would have been so high, traders would have looked at it on the surface and just said this doesn't match the profile, the float's too high, that's a deal breaker. If the price was $250 a share, people would have said the price is too high, it's a deal breaker. If you have news, it wouldn't have done anything in the first place. If it wasn't a biotech stock, well, you know, if it meant everything else, but it wasn't a biotech stock, it probably still would have worked because the supply level was low, the price was right and it had news, but it wouldn't have been as much of a profile of drug. It would have just been more like, this is another really strong stock that has similar characteristics, which is okay and we did get some trades like that during the month. So but initially, ATNF was like, all right, I'm looking for something that is very similar here to drug that is going to be sympathy momentum. So that first one was ATNF. Now I noticed when I went through the month that my profit was predominantly on stocks between two and 20, you know, this is the wheelhouse where I was making the most money. The percentage change had to be up at least 10% on the day. Yes, there were a few times I traded stocks that were gapping down or took early trades thinking maybe a stock would move and it didn't work out, but for the most part, the majority of the profit, the stock had to be up at least 10%. Floted under 5 million shares, that was the float on drug. That was a common denominator among all of these stocks. I also noticed that higher volume was better. So sometimes they start on late volume when the news first comes out, but if the news is good, then by the end of the day, we'll see over 25 million shares of volume. So being the first one to catch that breaking news is always amazing. You're getting in right when the news comes out. You're one of the first people taking the trade. If you can get it that early, that's going to be great. But by the end of the day, if the news is strong, that's when you're going to have 10 to 25 plus million shares. And that's when things do really well. So and then the other thing was the high relative volume that most of my profit came when the stock was trading on five times higher volume than the previous day. Why does the stock have five times higher volume than the previous day? It's because there's news. And what time does news come out between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m., generally speaking, news comes out pre-market. So trading those breaking news headlines pre-market was what really gave me the most profit. So this was the current profile, right? And this is just reiterating what I've already written here. The relative volume had to be a minimum of five times. The stock had to be up at least 10%. There need to be a news event, preferably priced between three and 20, floated less than five million shares. And this is kind of the zoomed in profile of what was working really well through the whole month. So at the very beginning, the question was, all right, I've got this kind of working profile of what I think, you know, I'm looking for right here. How do I find this in real time, right? You know, you'll see people on social media or wherever and they might comment on a stock but then you've got to do your own research and figure out, well, how well does that particular stock meet the profile? And that's if you've even been able to create a profile. So one of the things that I've gotten really good at is trying to recognize patterns in the market and adapt my strategy as a result. So when meme stocks were a big thing, right, we had GameStop and AMC and Bed Bath and Beyond you, all these meme stocks, the profile was different, right? The profile for a meme stock was very different from the profile of a hot biotech stock. So I had to adjust my strategy to focus in on finding the stocks that met that profile of what was currently working in today's market. It doesn't mean I'm throwing my strategy away. I'm just making sort of an adaptation to the strategy because current market conditions change. And so right now, this is the current variation is focusing on these types of stocks. But a month from now or two months from now, I could have to make another adjustment and switch back to something I've done before or something brand new. Now, for what it's worth, biotech stocks are often a sector that do really well for obvious reasons. When a biotech company comes out with a really great treatment or whatever it is, a new drug, their stock can go crazy, especially when it's a small kind of clinical trial company. Because those companies really depend on having those breakthroughs. Okay, so now I got to figure out how do I find stocks that meet this profile in real time? And that's of course where I'm using my scanners. So each morning through this month, what I was doing is I would sit down and generally, I would actually pull the scanners up on my phone early in the trading session. So like 630 a.m. Eastern standard time. So I pull up the scanners on my phone and when I pull them up on my phone, there's two scans I'm looking at. And sometimes I would do this at night as well. I would pull up my phone and I'd look at the after hours top gainers scanner. So the after hours top gainers scanner are showing me the biggest percentage gainers. That's right here, biggest percentage gainers during the after hours trading session. And that was helpful because sometimes what we would notice is that a stock would have news after hours. News comes out pre-market but it also comes out after hours. So we would see a headline comes out at 4 p.m. or 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. whatever, anytime after hours. And boom, that stock spikes up 30, 40, 50 percent. And when you see it's got a 1.2 million share float, it's like, all right. So this stock, this one right here fits the profile. It's got a high volume. It's got a float of 1.2 million shares. It's got a news catalyst. It's a little cheaper at $1.71, but it's up 55 percent. So it may not perfectly meet the criteria, but it's darn close. And I believe this one's also a biotech stock. Let me just double check it. I take a look at this scanner. And so I might say, all right, VS me, that's something I might want to look at for tomorrow. So I sort of can even start to build a watch list the night before. And then P-D-E-X, this one I would say, no, price is too high. The float is fine, but the price is too high. T-O-V-X, you know, 38 percent, it's a float 16 million shares. It's a little higher than the profile we've been working with right now, but maybe A-T-H-A 56 cents. That's too cheap. 25 million share float. That's a little too high. So that one I'm going to say is a no-go. T-E-V, 56 cents, that's going to be a no-go. T-E-A-M team, that's a no-go. Price is too high. S-G-D. Look at that float. 330,000 shares. Okay, super low float. Price is fine. Does it have news? It has the little flame there. So that means it does have news. Then we click on that news headline and we see, oh, okay, we've got a, was it a 13G? Let's see, what was that? So 13, sorry, 13D, form 8K. So that's something that we could pull up and take a look at. Anyway, so that's kind of my process. Now that's after hours. Pre-market. I'll sit down and what I'm checking pre-market is my top gainer scanner right here. So this is showing me the leading percentage gainers in the market right now this morning. Now if I see the leading percentage gainers all have floats of, you know, 20 million shares plus, as this case right now, I'm going to think, all right, I'm not going to trade any of these. They don't match the current profile. So that's fine. And that was the case today. But let's say we had PDE, well, we've already talked about that was too expensive. But let's just say we had one that, that more closely met the profile and is the number one leading percentage gainer. Then I'm going to pull it up. I'm going to see what the news catalyst is. I'm going to try to figure out why it's moving. Now one of the things I found really interesting this month was that almost every single day, the trades that I was taking, they didn't come from a, like a watch list. Really I'll have a little watch list of these are kind of stocks I'm watching. But what ended up happening a lot this month was that the stocks I was trading were stocks that, you know, an hour beforehand, I didn't even know, think anything of that stock. And then all of a sudden, 8 a.m., boom, the stock has breaking news. It starts hitting the scanner and is immediately up 50% within like 30 seconds. And then boom, I have to really quickly do my due diligence and ask myself, does this meet the profile, float, price, change, relative volume, news, sector? And if it does, then I'm jumping in pretty much as quickly as possible. Now there are two ways to trade this. The first is to be aggressive like I am, which takes experience and to jump in as quickly as possible. If you're doing that, this is the approach that I'm taking. So I'm looking at the stock and basically what happens is, let's just say this is 8 a.m. right here. So this is 8 a.m. And immediately, let's just say it spikes here from $2 to $3. So it goes up 50% in one big green candle. All right. So you got a huge green candle. That's what you like to see. Now it hits $3 and let's just say for the sake of argument that at $3, there was a little, there was a couple of sellers. So a couple of seller orders kind of right there, right around three. Let's just draw those line. Let's just say it's like 5,000 shares. So maybe what happens is it pulls back just for a second because, you know, people see that sell order and they're like, oh, I don't know, well, it's just other people bail out. And then what I look for is the next candle go up and if it can break through this level through that wall of sellers right there, then I'm looking for a move up to where 350. So what you may note is that if you've watched other episodes that I've taught is that a lot of stocks trade with respect to half dollars and whole dollars. So there's a half dollar, here's another half or a whole dollar, there's a half dollar, there's a whole dollar. So the reason this happens is because a lot of traders end up placing orders just at logical places like half dollars and whole dollars. So a stock will often have not a lot of orders in between and then orders get clustered up around that half dollar whole dollar. So what that means is that as the stock comes up to this level, it's got these sellers that's got to kind of work through. So then you get another little pullback there, we call it a micro pullback and then I'm jumping in for that next pop higher, I'm actually going to put a link in the description where you can download my micro pullback strategy as a PDF. This is a strategy and it's a, it's a technique of buying these stocks around these levels, half dollars and whole dollars at the very beginning of the move because what often happens here is in a matter of five minutes potentially, we have a stock that goes up a hundred percent and people will look at the chart and they'll say, golly, I don't even know where you possibly got in that. That thing went so fast, you know, where did you buy? Actually we had one today. What was it? COCH. I'll pull this one up on the 10 second. So I'm just back this up here. All right. So we're going to go right in here. Okay. So this for instance, now this was kind of a dramatic example. This is a stock that had a shelf registration, but nonetheless, so this goes from three up to 350 and see how it taps that level at four. There's a, there's a top of that candle right there. There's a, there's a candle wick right there. It taps four, then it pulls back and then it comes back up on this candle and that was your first micro pullback at four dollars. So I actually took my first trade right in that area as it broke through four, then it hits a high of 450 and it pulls back just for a moment and then it goes through 450, goes straight to five, five 50, goes all the way to six up to 650 and then right up here, it squeezes all the way to nine dollars. It pulls back and then we have a seller at seven. So it drops down. Now there's a seller at seven and it cannot get back over that level and then it starts to unwind from there. So, and then it comes down to areas like the whole dollar, the half dollar. So this is very common that on these types of stocks, we see this resistance and support around half dollars and whole dollars. AIMX, this was one from, it was yesterday, they had news that came out and this one squeezed up pretty quickly as well. So this is a one minute chart, it's not the 10 second, but on this one we came up to half dollar, whole dollar 16, we dipped down, then we ripped through 16 and go up to this level. So one of the things I really like doing is trading these right around those areas. So by the way, micro pullback strategy PDF, so you could download that, that'll be pinned to the top of the comments and linked in the description. So what I end up doing is jumping in this pretty much as quickly as I can in this first leg of the move. During this leg of the move, there's a couple of things going on. Number one, the volume should be increasing. So usually light volume at the beginning, but then volume increasing as it goes higher. So we're sort of doing like this. And what we like to see is that there's higher volume on the green candles, right here, higher volume on the green candles than on the red candles. Light volume pullback on red candles is fine, but we want to see higher volume relatively on the green candles. When you see higher volume on the red candles, that tells you that people are selling, they're dumping, they're getting rid of the stock, they don't like it. So even in spite of the news. So if I see that type of selling, then that's something I'm going to be concerned about. So increasing volume, what's also going to be true is that the MACD, which is our technical indicator down here a little bit lower, that oscillates, right? So that's an oscillating indicator here. So what we're going to notice is that when we get this first crossover, the MACD is going to be positive. And then when we get that first negative crossover here, that spot, that's the place where I'm exiting. So I want to trade when the MACD is above the signal line, right, which is going to be the first leg of the move. Now what we also notice for traders who were not as comfortable trading that first leg up, some people said, look, that first leg up, it's so fast. I can't do those micro pullbacks. I'm, I'm still learning, right? I'm not good at that. Then the next spot to watch was this curl. So we get that first spike like we got right here and then it drops down. Now look, this is a move where it goes from $7 to $15 in three minutes. That's a hundred percent move. There's a lot of opportunity there, but if you're not able to trade it right now, that's fine. All right. So let it pull back. It pulls back. It comes back up. And then what I start watching is where did it base out? What's the low of this pullback? So in this case, the low of this pullback is around 1047 and we start rallying back up and then we start to pull back again right through here. And so I say, well, what's the low of this pullback right here? And the low of this pullback is about $12 and what's the high of that area? The high is about 13. So now we start thinking, if this thing breaks through 13, what's our target or retest a high a day? This thing breaks 13, it goes up to 1350, goes up to 1450, up to 1550, up to 16, goes almost a $17 a share. So when we think about profit and loss, this is one part of risk entry at the top, stops at the bottom. And this ends up being like, you know, three parts of reward. So you've got a really nice profit to loss ratio on that type of trade. And in fact, if we look at my metrics for the month of, for the month of just a 30-day stretch or whatever number of days it was in the month, let me just check to see what it was real quick. I'm going to pull these up over on this monitor. So I want to say that my profit to loss ratio was about two to one. So my average winners were double my average losers. Let's see. We're just going to look at the last month. There we go. All right. So yeah, average winners, and this does include, by the way, some trades in my think or swim account, but only $10,000 worth of profit. So it's not enough that it's going to skew the results too much. So $1,500 of profit versus $800 of risk, but nearly a two to one profit to loss ratio. So that was how I was trading for pretty much the duration of the month. Average winners, five minutes long for winners, two minutes long for losers, about 64%, 65% accuracy, a little lower than usual. Biggest winner, 33,000, biggest loser, 14,000. But this area right here, let's notice that the MACD is still open, right? So the MACD pulled away. It came down, but it didn't cross. That's where it crossed right there. And once it has its first crossover, that's usually the end of the first leg of the move up. Now we can get second leg higher. And we did in this case, we got a second leg higher and that was fine. The MACD crossed over again, but usually the first leg is the cleanest. That's the area where we see the biggest moves and the least kind of resistance as we're getting those breakouts. So all right. So now let's jump back over here. So the way I'm finding these stocks each day is on my scanners. So what ends up happening is boom, we get the breaking news right here at 8 a.m. And as soon as we get breaking news, the second the news comes out, this is hitting our scanners right here. So 8 a.m., boom, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, it's hitting a scanner atnf. And it's got light volume at first. It's at $2.94, three, 10, 355, but it's squeezing. It's moving. We pull up the stock and immediately now sometimes I'm already familiar with the ticker and I know this is a biotech stockness and that in this case, I wasn't. So I pulled up the ticker. I saw the floats less than a million shares and the price is right. So I knew we were good on price, volume, you know, everything else. And I saw there was news and then I saw 180 life sciences and I was like, OK, here we go. This is what we're looking for. And then from that point, I'm looking for my first trade at a micro pullback near a half dollar or a whole whole dollar to ride that momentum up to the next leg. So that's how I'm using these scanners to help me find the next one in real time. And I'm using them every single day. This is the tool that I think is for me my most valuable tool. Now, look, this is a tool that, of course, I've developed and you could use it where you're trading. There's tools that you could use that are maybe competing with this or similar to this. I've customized this tool for the way I trade every single day. So if you trade a strategy similar to me, it makes sense to use this type of tool. If you trade a different strategy, if you're swing trading or you're trading options or you're doing something a little different, then maybe a different tools better. It really depends on your strategy. So anyways, so using the scanners to search for the next one. And then after I find the stock on the scanner, it's trying to figure out what is the news catalyst that's driving this higher and how well does this news catalyst fit within the current profile of what's working? So of course, during the pandemic, a lot of the stocks that were giving us these big moves were stocks that had news headlines related to COVID. So any headline that had that word in it, boom, earlier this year, any headline that had AI in the title, boom, makes a huge move. I mean, we've had so we've had an Ebola virus outbreak, anything with Ebola virus had a big move. We had monkeypox outbreak, anything with that had a big move. We had the AI stuff. We've had cryptocurrency, anything with blockchain. That gives us a big move. I mean, it's, you know, the the hot theme shifts. And really what ends up happening usually is you just get one stock like we had with drug that has legitimately good news and the stock goes up 2000%. And now that becomes a rising tide that lifts all the ships that are in that same sector because now traders are looking for the next one. But, you know, we're kind of like very specific that the next one should be similar. When in fact, if we're going to be honest, it would be totally fine. If the next one, it might be that the next one that has good news is not a biotech stock. It is a crypto or an AI or something that has very good news for that sector. But traders just look for the similarity. So when you see a stock that's similar, then it's like immediately they're jumping on. So same with meme stocks with meme stocks. It was like, you know, Bed Bath and Beyond, who GameStop, you know, brick and mortar company, Bed Bath and Beyond, AMC, you know, it was brick and mortar, brick and mortar, dying business that's heavily shorted, see if it's going to squeeze. And so even though some of those stocks really like AMC, not as strong of a company as GameStop, you know, it got that extra attention because it benefited from just being in that same meeting the profile essentially. So I guess you could say traders do a lot of profiling for better or for worse. And, you know, unfortunately, there are definitely times where, you know, you'll have a stock that meets the profile, but the company really isn't a good company, you know, and you'll learn that later when the company doesn't hold up and the price goes lower and lower and lower, like AMC. But in the moment, it meets the profile and we're all kind of looking for the next one. So, well, you know, it can end up working, at least in the short term. But the news catalyst is important. There were a few stocks this month where, you know, I got a trade and there wasn't a clear catalyst on it. Those are always riskier. I mean, you know, if you don't have clear news catalyst and it's going up three hundred, four hundred, five hundred percent, you have the risk that the stock could get halted by regulators. And the regulators say, why is the stock up this much? In fact, it did happen. Now that I say that, it happened on CHSN. CHSN, a Chinese stock that was confirmed, pump and dump. So this one had, you know, a Chinese, what's that message is going out, telling people to buy it and the stock ends up going. This was on October 5th or 4th. It ends up going from $2. Actually, it went up to like $60 a share. This one, I mean, people shorted it thinking it's a pump and dump and it's going to drop. Okay, went to $44 a share, but this thing actually made a pretty epic move. Now, here's the one thing that can be a problem with, um, with trading during regular market hours. So during regular market hours, which is from 9.30 AM to 4 PM, we have market orders, of course, we have stop orders. So you can use a stop order. It'll get you out of your position. And we also have circuit breaker halts. Circuit breaker halts occur when a stock squeezes up more than 10% based on the average price over the last five minutes. That's true for stocks over $3. For stocks between 75 cents and a dollar, the threshold's a little tighter. I'll just write out the threshold so you know what it is. Okay. So we have these halts and this became an interesting theme this month, the way these halts are working. So we call these their UL, a limit up, limit down halts. And they're also called a trading, um, pause. Although sometimes they're called a trading, um, suspension, but it's not, it, it is a suspension, but it lasts only for five minutes, generally. So the way it works is a stock, um, under 75 cents from the previous close. The previous close PC under 75 cents. Halts equals every 15 cents. So that means if a 75 cent stock goes up 15 cents a share to 90 cents, it'll get halted for five minutes. And that's if it goes up that much within less than five minutes. So it's not total on the day, but it's, um, this is going to be change. So I'll just do percentage change in five minutes. Approximately. It's based on an algorithm and it's the average price over the last five minutes. So to get a little complicated, if a stock moves up very, very slowly, 10 percent over the course of five minutes, then it's average price over five minutes. It's also moving up. So the halt level is going to keep moving, just like a little higher, a little higher. So it really has to pull away and go almost straight up in that period up to the, uh, uh, that, uh, whatever that amount is. So for stocks that close below 75 cents, the halt band is every 15 cents for stocks between 75 cents and three dollars, the halt, uh, and this is the prior close, prior close, by the way, prior close, the halt equals a 20 percent and for stocks, three dollars and up the halt equals 10 percent. So here's something really interesting. Let's say you have a stock where the prior close was three dollars and 50 cents. So if that stock is now at four, where's it going to halt up 10 percent? It's going to halt at four 40. Let's say you have a stock, the prior close was between 75 cents and three dollars, but this morning it's up, you know, 200 percent and it's also trading at four dollars, what's its halt level going to be for 80? And that's because it was in this previous tier by the prior day close. Uh, and on the other hand, if you had one that was below 75 cents the prior day, and today has made its way all the way up to four, where's the halt level on that? Four 15. So you can have a real variation in halt levels depending on the prior close of the stock. So what that resulted in, uh, for a number of stocks this month that started on the lower price side is in some cases, halts every 15 cents, which were almost intolerable because it's getting halted almost instantly, which means you're stuck for five minutes every time it goes up that much. So it's constantly getting paused and you can't, it's hard to move in and out of the trade before you're getting stuck in a halt. And then on the other hand, we have times where you'll have a stock like this that halts halts up once, halts up a second time, halts up a third time. This halts up was at 660 and it opened at, let's see, $12 a share. It went up a hundred percent during the halt, which is crazy because you can't trade during a halt. So how does it go up a hundred percent while it's halted? Well, it's a mechanism of the halts that while the stock is halted, you can bid on how much you want to pay for it. If you still want to buy it and your, your order will go through when it resumes trading. So people just said, I want to buy it and I'll pay more money for it. And so it resumes a lot higher, but it doesn't actually like trade up to that level. It just resumes at that level. So this becomes very difficult because then of course, if you get caught in a halt down and it opens lower because people want to bail out, you're stuck. So I found that for me this month, my trading was the best during that pre-market window where there are no halt levels. So you don't have to worry about getting caught and stuck and waiting for it to resume. Now stocks can still get halted pending news pre-market, but they won't get halted on a circuit breaker and they don't hold on circuit breakers after hours either. So then after hours, all of a sudden, this goes from 16 up to 44, no halts. So you see more volatility pre-market and after hours in most cases, but drug was an exception to that. Drug was a stock that during regular trading hours, ended up going all the way to nearly $60 a share. But if we back this up here, you'll see this move and I traded it on this day. I did pretty well on it. That day was pre-market, the beginning of the move. And then this day here, the end of the move, the final peak was after hours. We had another one this month. Let's see MNPR. This one also put in a pretty big move and it was during regular trading hours as well, but similar with the halt issue. So look at how many times this halted, halting up, halting up, halting up, halting up, halting up, halting up. It's really hard to trade. We were getting those big halts and these big gaps. They're just moving higher and it's just, it's just not easy. So unfortunately, that led me to feel that in a lot of cases, I wasn't able to manage my risk when I was worried about dealing with back-to-back halts, just because you don't get natural pullbacks. So unless you're already in before the halts, it's just, they're just more difficult to trade. Now, look, there, there are techniques you can use to trade them, micro pullbacks on halt resumptions and things like that. But it's just something that I found to be a bit more difficult. So I ended up focusing on that window from about 7 a.m. until 9 30. 7 a.m. is when a lot of retail brokers come online. And some traders have been asking me about this because there's recently news out that the New York Stock Exchange is going to extend hours of trading for 22 hours a day, five days a week. So it'll go from, I think it was, I can't remember, something like, what was it? It's going to start at like 1 30 in the morning and go to 11 30 at night. But that's only for New York Stock Exchange, let's stocks. Now, some people said, Ross, what's that going to mean for trading? And I said, well, you know, the market currently opens at 4 a.m. But most retail brokers don't let you trade that early. The earliest you can trade is 7 a.m. Why? They don't want to run customer support 24 hours a day. So, you know, yes, there are some stocks that you can trade in extended hours. And I know Charles Schwab is expanding it to more stocks, more S&P 500 stocks and things like that. Yeah, you'll be able to trade some more, but it's going to be mostly lighter volume because there's not as many people that are going to be participating at those odd hours of the day. And brokers, ultimately, unless they all open up trading to that 22 hour day, and of course, NASDAQ would have to join with that too, I just, I don't see it changing things right now. Now, perhaps six months from now, a year from now, five years from now, it'll be different. We'll be on a full 24 hour market. And even if that's the case for the strategy that I'm trading, I'm doing the best trading breaking news. So now when do the companies put out breaking news? Well, currently most US companies are putting out breaking news between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. So unless they decide to start putting out headlines at one in the morning, I don't think that that's going to change, you know, the time that I'm trading. Again, there are international companies that will put out headlines at one in the morning and there will be some moves at that time, I suppose. But I think generally speaking, we'll see volume continue to be condensed during certain windows of the day that are historically known for being the highest, highest return for the time you're spending. I mean, does every, you know, look, you could get up at all hours of the day and night to trade what's moving, but I think most people try to condense their trading into a window that gives them the most profit for the time they're spending. Okay, so after we've checked the news, we found the stock. That's what I'm getting into performing my technical analysis. And this is where I'm looking for those micro pullbacks, as you can see here on AT&F. So it pops up, it pulls back, it pops up, it pulls back. And one of the things I've kind of said is that sometimes trading these feels like, it feels like a wave that I'm trading these waves. This is a wave and it pulls back a little bit and then another wave and it pulls back in another wave. And as long as we're generally trending up, what I like to do is I like to try to buy these little dips to anticipate the next wave up, buy the little dip for the next wave up, buy the little dip for the next wave up. And if you could do that 10, 15 times on a stock like this in one day, the next thing you know, you're, you're putting together a really nice green day. Now, of course, it will depend on how much risk you're taking. And so for me, when I started the month, at the beginning of the month, I came into the month thinking, all right, you know, going to try to build a cushion, couple of nice winners. And then all of a sudden, boom, you know, you had that big move on CHSN and then you had drug and it was like, all right, now is the time to step up to the plate. It's really important in trading to know when to lean in and be aggressive and when to ease off the throttle, batten down the hatches and cool down, because the market always goes in these ebbs and flows. So when it's hot, that's when I want to lean in and when it's cold, I want to try to recognize it's cold as early as possible. So I don't spiral dig a deep hole that I then have to spend a lot of time recovering from. So I want to try to really get good at cooling off. I'll say for me, I don't have a hard time putting the pedal to the metal. That's usually not hard for me. I have a hard time taking my foot off the gas. I have a hard time slowing down because when it's hot, I'm just like, I guess so amped up and I'm like, all right, I'm looking for the next one that's going to go and the next one, the next one. And next thing you know, I'm getting buried on some really bad trades because I overstayed my welcome. So it's something I'm trying to get better at in time, but you know, some traders struggle with getting aggressive, others struggle with easing off. Usually you're sort of on one spectrum or the other and I'm on the side where I have a hard time kind of taking my foot off the gas when things start to slow down. So usually for me, a really nice hot streak will end in a couple of large red days where I'm fine, you know, first red day is like, oh, that was not good. Second red day, I'm like, okay, now I've really got to slow down. If I end up having three red days in a row or something like that, that's when I'm like, okay, I got to put myself into a little bit of, you know, trader rehab, the guard rails on because look, I don't mind having, you know, some really nice profit and giving back a little off the top, but I don't want to go, you know, like this. So in actually this is true on the span of like, you know, a 90 day look, if I was looking at 90 days, you know, to make $400,000 and to give back 30, 40 grand off the top, you know, on a couple of red days, that's tolerable. Giving back 10% off the top is no problem. What about on an intraday basis? What about on a day where I'm up $125,000? How much am I willing to give back on that day before I need to walk away? Is it 10,000, 15,000, 25,000? Is it 50,000? Right? So it's going to be different for everyone. I like to try to avoid giving back more than 10% off the top. Now it just has a general rule of thumb. And if I give back 50% off the top, that's a hard stop. So here I have to walk away and get away from my keyboard. Now that's 50% just on a normal day. If I gave back 50% off the top on a six figure day, that would be a really big loss. I would not be happy about that. So I did have a day this month where I got myself up to $125,000 on the day. And I finished that day at about $97,000, something like that. So I gave back 10, 12%, 15% off the top. And I thought that that was fine. I really didn't feel too much emotion about it. I was like, that's OK, because here's the thing. If if you're having trading like this and you walk away right here, you kind of walk away wondering what could have been if I kept trading. So look, it might have gone like this. And then once you have that first sort of double step down, that's like, OK, that's my time to walk. So for me, I like to kind of go over my peak because once I know I don't really know, I hit my peak until I'm past it. That's the thing, because right here, you can be like, oh, I'm out of my peak. It's like, well, yeah, but you could be going higher. So I've got to go past it in order to kind of know, you know, that I've that I actually peaked. So that's something that beginner traders sometimes struggle with because you'll get the emotion of like, oh, shoot, FOMO, I'm giving back profit. I'm disappointed. I overstayed my welcome for beginner traders. And sometimes better to say, you know what, I'm just going to take one trade, get green and get out and not overstay my welcome. But for a more seasoned trader where you want to try to extract as much profit as you can from the market, I think the right way to do it is to trade all the way up until you've given back a little off the top. And that's kind of like, all right, that that's like the perfect spot. And it just requires, you know, you being comfortable with recognizing that you're always going to walk away with a little bit less than you had at the top, but net, you have more than if you had walked away sooner and as long as you can be OK with that, I think it's worth it. So so then anyway, so now I perform my technical analysis. And if you want to download that micro pullback strategy as a PDF, that's pinned to the top of the comments, you can download that. And once I've done my technical analysis, then at that point, I'm pulling up my order entry window and I'm executing the trades using level two. So looking at the bid, looking at the ask, looking at the spread, looking at the thickness or thinness of the book to see, you know, how many orders are there up to potentially a halt level if we're looking at something that might halt. And I like to use NASDAQ for routing pre-market. I don't use smart routing. I find that smart routes are usually smart for the broker, not smart for the trader. They usually give the broker the biggest kickback. They're not good for the trader. That's so I don't use those smart routes. Whether you use archer, use edge or bats, all of them are pretty much I feel like pretty similar, but I like using NASDAQ. So I then execute the trades on the level two and then I take a step back and I look at my metrics on the week, on the month, on the day, certainly. And I ask myself, you know, what am I doing right now that's working? And this ended up being, you know, the month of, you know, the month here. So best week was nearly $200,000 in one week. You know, nine, nine thousand there the last week. I mean, just unbelievable, super solid trading, a little slow those first two weeks, but more than made up for it on this three week, really intense hot streak. It was these three weeks where it was like really game time. This is when things got exciting. So to be honest, it was really only about half the month. It was a great half of the month. And, you know, my, my approach as always is when it's hot to lean in to that hot market, to be more aggressive, to take bigger share size and to really try to capitalize. So I actually took 122 trades on this day. If there was, and this day, I only took five trades. If there was ever a day to take a lot of trades, it's certainly when the market is moving and it was on this day. So leaning in into a hot market, I think, is important. So if you want to learn more, I'll put two links at the bottom of this episode. One, where you can watch a free class to learn more about how I develop this strategy and to learn more details of the strategy. Another where you could check out a two week trial at Warrior Trading. If you want to watch over my shoulder for two weeks and see what it's like to trade side by side of me, and so I hope you guys check those out. And I thought I'd give you some recommended reading here for those that want to continue learning. So I'm going to share a couple of books with you that I think you'll enjoy. I'll put them on the whiteboard here. The first one, thinking in bets by Annie Duke. This is a great book. How to Day, Trade the Plain Truth. This is a book that I wrote. The power of knowing when to walk away quit also by Annie Duke. Trade Mindfully by Gary Dayton. I think that's a great book, The Happiness Advantage. This is a book that I really enjoy and I think is worth reading. So these are five books that you should check out, add these to your reading list. And I want to thank you guys for tuning into today's episode. If you enjoyed it, I hope you hit that thumbs up. I hope you are subscribed to the channel. And our mind you always look trading is risky. My results aren't difficult, so please take it slow and always practice these new scratches that you're learning in a simulator where it's a safe environment. All right, so take it slow and I'll see you here for the next upload real soon.