# 42. Trading Was HARD Until I Learned This… 💥 Small Account Challenge Days 10-15
# id=nywPcI0AoMQ (whisper base.en)

Welcome to today's deep dive into how to grow a small account as a day trader. Now growing a small account has never been easy, but you know what? There's a pesky rule in the market that has been holding us back and it's been making it a whole lot harder than it ever needed to be. That rule is called the pattern day trader rule and it was put into place on February 27th, 2001. That rule stated that in order to day trade and a margin account, you needed a minimum balance of $25,000 and that made the barrier to entry to start day trading much too high for most beginner traders. Most beginner traders, like myself when I was getting started, want to fund a relatively small account, you know, $2,000, maybe $3,000, maybe $5,000 and really get our feet wet and see whether or not we can find any success, right? Now if we find some success, we may be able to find a way to add more money to the account and of course we'll grow the account by trading in it, but this pesky rule has been holding a lot of people back. So in today's episode, I'm going to share with you how traders over the last two plus decades have been getting around the PDT rule and what has changed because something big happened that has changed the way traders are approaching this obstacle. So I'm going to share that with you and we're going to go ahead and jump in. We've got a great slide deck, I've got a lot to cover and by the way, today I'm going to be updating you on day 10 through 15 of my small account challenge because right now I'm putting my money where my mouth is and I'm trading in a small account and I'm getting around the PDT rule in the exact same way that I'm going to teach you in this episode. So we've got the whiteboard here, we've got our full slide deck, we've got a lot to cover. So let's go ahead and go full screen on this slide deck and I talk to you about how to grow a small account because the truth is growing a small cow has never been easy, but it was especially hard until I learned this secret. All right, we're going to make this a full screen and there we go. These are the topics for today's deep dive. First, I'm going to explain this pesky rule in the market that came into place on February 27th, 2001. I'm going to share with you what we used to do to get around the rule and I'm going to share with you the new way of getting around the rule that I'm now using today. And number four, I'm going to share with you the trading strategy that I think is optimal for growing a small account. And this is the strategy that I'm currently implementing in this Thinkorswim small account challenge. And just to let you know exactly where my balance is, current balancing the account $21,477 my goal has been to grow this account to $25,000 as quickly as I can because I know once I'm over $25,000, I'm above the PDT rule and from there, it's smooth sailing. But it's that first leg of the race of just getting to $25,000 that's so hard. And to be honest, it feels like this rule has been holding us back. So it makes it even more difficult to get to $25,000. It doesn't feel fair. So we're going to talk about who this rule really benefits. Is it retail traders like you and I or is it the big brokers? Well, that's to be determined. Well, let's talk a little bit about the history of the PDT rule. Now when I first started trading, I had no idea what the PDT rule was. In fact, I funded my first real money account in 2001 more than 20 years ago. And although I funded it just after the PDT rule had been created, I didn't even know it existed. Now I funded my account not with the intention of day trading in it at that time, but buying a position and holding it for, you know, well, a few months or maybe longer if it had gone well. I have a lot of money in the account as long as a thousand bucks and I didn't end up growing it very much on that first attempt, but I didn't give up. Now the PDT rule was created in February of 2001 just after the dot com bubble burst. So if you recall during the late 1990s, there was a massive bubble in tech stocks in the stock market and it was called the dot com bubble because what was happening was the internet was this like new thing. Everyone was so amped up about it and any company that was IPOing, you know, like a Yahoo or a, you know, pets dot com or anything dot com, the stock was just going to the moon. Everyone was like, the internet is the next big thing. Everything's going to move to the internet. And so people were buying these stocks and seeing this explosive move, but a lot like the bubble that occurred during the pandemic on stocks like zoom and DocuSign, a lot of the stocks that went up ended up coming back down because ultimately the fundamentals of those companies didn't support the valuation that speculative traders were putting on the stock. Now that doesn't mean there wasn't a lot of opportunity and a lot of money to be made because there was both to the long side and the short side. But just like during the pandemic, there were a lot of beginner traders that had a rude awakening that what had been working for them for the most part was beginners luck. They didn't have a skill, they didn't really have a strategy, they didn't have a set of rules or a process they followed every single day. And so what ends up happening if you're invested in the stock and it goes to zero, you lose all your money, right? Now that's disappointing for retail traders, but let's get on the whiteboard here. What you may know is that most brokers give you leverage. So if you fund an account with $25,000 and you receive four times leverage, you have 100,000 buying power. So now let's think about this a different way. Let's say you bought $100,000 of a stock at $10 a share and it goes all the way up to $15 a share. Boom, you're up $50,000. Your account's doing great. But then what happens when it goes all the way down to $2 a share, which is what happened with a lot of these stocks. Now you're down $80,000 and wait a second, you only had $25,000 in your account. So $25,000 minus 80, you are in the red. Your account is in the red negative, you have what's called a margin call, which means your broker is coming to you and saying, Hey, give me the money, $80,000 minus 25. So 60, so $55,000, they're saying, Hey, you owe us $55,000 and you're on the hook. But in the meantime, your broker is stuck. They have a client that owes them $55,000 and there's nothing they can do. So this is a really big problem for brokers and it is a problem for brokers during any market bubble. When traders who are trading and investing on leverage, when the stock that they're invested in goes down beyond their cash balance, their position can get liquidated, they then owe the broker money and the brokers on the hook until the client pays up. And look, when it's a economic recession, if the client doesn't have the money, they don't have the money, what are they going to do? So the broker is totally screwed. So to protect the broker, perhaps more than to protect the retail trader, but maybe let's say for the sake of argument, to protect both parties in February of 2001, after the bubble burst, regulator said, FINRA said, you know what, $25,000 is the minimum to be a day trader. And they thought that this would slow down the speculative trading that was happening among novice traders that was in part amplifying the prices of some of these stocks. But more importantly, it would help prevent margin calls from retail traders getting wiped out and from brokers getting stuck with positions that they would never get covered by a retail trader who had a margin call. So the February 27th, 2001 PET rule stated the following, you need to maintain a minimum cash balance in your account of $25,000 in order to day trade. And they set a little bit of a rule on this. They said that this is, this applies only to margin accounts, so, but all day traders use margin accounts. So it's only for margin accounts, you need a $25,000 minimum. And if you're under $25,000, you can only take three day trades every five days. Okay, so that for those of you guys who know me or who know any day trader, three trades in five days is nothing. That's not day trading, three, that's not even close to day trading. So essentially they made it, so if you're below $25,000, you couldn't day trade at all. And if you tried to day trade, your account will get a restriction for 90 days. So you would essentially get a margin call where you were told, get your account up to $25,000 and you can start day trading again, or you're locked out for 90 days. So that came into place in 2001. And what might be helpful for you to understand is what it actually constitutes a day trade. This is a little bit nuanced, but it's important because different brokers have different definitions of how they enforce what a day trade is. And if you're with a broker and you're below the PDT minimum of $25,000, there's a high likelihood that you get flagged, you'll get your account restricted and you have to either close that account, move to a different broker or you just have to wait and it's a real pain. So the way brokers calculate a trade is fairly simple. One buy and one sell, if you buy a thousand shares and sell a thousand shares, you've done one trade. If you buy 500 shares, you buy another 500 shares and sell a thousand shares, you've also done one trade. Now you might say, well, wait a second, here was two trades and this is three trades. And while that is true, a trade is a round trip. That's what they can constitute a day trade is a round trip. It's not a trade just if you buy it because if you don't sell it, then it's not even a day trade. So it's really only a day trade when you close it in one day. So when you buy and sell in one day, that's one trade. Two buys in one sell, that's still only considered one trade because it's one round trip. Two buys and two sells, that's still only one trade. You bought, you added, you sold, you sold the rest, that's one trade. If you buy, you sell, you buy, you sell, now that's two trades because you changed directions. Right? So each time you change directions, that's considered a new trade. So buy buy, sell, sell one trade, buy buy, sell, sell two trades, buy, sell one trade, buy, sell two trades, buy, sell three trades. But buy, buy, sell only one trade, buy, buy, sell, sell only one trade. So it's how many times you change directions. In fact, if you wanted to, you could buy, buy, buy, buy four, five times in a row and then sell 15 times in a row, but as long as you only change direction once, that's considered one round trip. But as soon as you go buy, sell, if you change directions and go back to buying, you've now created two trades. So you've got to be careful of that when you're doing, when you're day trading in one of these accounts. So now you might argue, why do we have this PDT rule? And the PDT rule, it's important to say, only applies to margin accounts. But as you know, a margin account offers four times leverage, which means you can day trade on borrowed money, which a lot of day traders like. And just to do this, the math on kind of why this is something that a lot of day traders like, most traders who are trading in a margin account, let's say, for instance, you've got a $25,000 margin account, which means you've got $100,000 of buying power. Let's say, for instance, you see a stock at, we'll just do $10 a share again, for instance. Let's say it's at $10 a share. You could, if you wanted to, I'm not saying you should, but you could buy 10,000 shares of that stock, 10,000 shares, 10 times 10s, 100. And now if this stock goes up to 1050, goes up to 1050, you sell 10,000 shares and you've now locked up $5,000 a profit on $25,000 account, even though the underlying asset only went up 5%, you used four times leverage. So you're up times four, your accounts up 20% in one day. Now I think it goes without saying that leverage in margin is a sword that cuts both ways. You take that same trade where you get in at 10 and sell at 950 for a loss, your account, the trade's down 5%, but your account is down 20% in one day. But traders who are speculating on highly volatile stocks love using leverage because of the amplified reward when the trades work. But leverage has to be used responsibly. And most beginner traders really shouldn't use it at all. So I think it makes sense to restrict the use of leverage for beginner traders. I don't have a problem with that, but I'll share with you what I would propose is done a little differently. But I'll save that for a moment. So if you've got that $25,000, typically you would have your four times leverage. But if you're below $25,000, you don't get any leverage and you can't day trade at all. So in theory, the PET rule prevents less financially stable investors from day trading. I suppose the argument would be that if you don't have $25,000, you're not financially stable enough to trade. And you shouldn't day trade on leverage with a $3,000 account because you don't have a lot of margin for error. You make a mistake and suddenly you owe your broker $10,000, someone that didn't have a lot of money that now owes their broker that kind of money, that puts them in a bad position. However, I don't think that it's fair to say that having $25,000 makes you more likely that you'll be a successful trader because I don't think that is the case. In fact, I would argue that when I finally funded my first $25,000 account and I had four times leverage and I started taking $55,000, $65,000, $75,000 positions as a novice trader investor, that was very reckless. Now, I didn't realize it at the time, I do now looking back, but that was really not safe. So having money doesn't make you a better trader. I would actually argue that having less is better because when you have less money, it forces you to be more disciplined. So having less money and having appropriate guardrails on your account will keep you safe. I'll share with you the guardrails that I think are best. So this was the way, this was what all of us had to deal with. So up until May 31st, 2024, prior to May 31st, 2024, the way we got around the PDT rule was by using international brokers. So international broker dealers do not enforce the PDT rule and this is true even today. The PDT rule is governed by a US regulatory agency. And so they enforce it on all US broker dealers. So all US broker dealers, E-Trade, Charles Schwab, Merrill Lynch, Fidelity, Interactive Brokers in the United States, their US office, they all enforce the PDT rule. They have no choice. They have to comply with the regulations. So all US brokers, anyone you could possibly think of is going to enforce the PDT rule. And that means you're going to need a minimum of $25,000 in order to day trade in that account. So what a lot of traders did was we learned really through word of mouth, through online communities like what we have at Warrior Trading or what you see even just on Reddit or Twitter, things like that. People would say, hey, I'm trading with this international broker. They don't enforce the PDT rule. And then all of a sudden the word spreads and now people are opening accounts with that broker dealer. So for a long time, there were broker dealers that were in the Bahamas and they would cater to US traders. Now the Bahamas is like, you know, the 60 miles off the coast of Florida. I mean, they speak English, it is a foreign country, but they speak English. It's easy to get a hold of them. They're on the same time zone as us. So you can call them and you can say, hey, what's going on with my account, this and that. And so what most people would do is they would open an account with one of these brokers in the Bahamas. And that's what I did as well when I was getting started. Well, not exactly when I was getting started because I didn't know about them at first. But once I learned about them, then I funded an account there myself. The pros and cons of these international brokers. So number one pro is there's no PDT rule and number two, they offer six times leverage. Not four times, but six times. So that means if you fund an account with $5,000 times six, you've got $30,000 in buying power. So think about that. How all of a sudden you see a stock at $3 a share and you can buy 10,000 shares, 10k shares, it goes up 50 cents a share, you're up $5,000. Your account could be up 100% in one day or it could be down 100% in one day. Now whether it goes up or goes down is ultimately going to depend on your skill, your strategy and your ability to have the discipline to follow the rules of the system that you've created. And so the biggest danger here is that beginner traders who don't yet have a strategy who open this type of account, have too much leverage, going to take too much risk and have a higher likelihood of taking losses or have the potential to take a large loss because of the use of leverage. So that's a problem. Now in the US, they could still take a large loss because they can day trade three times in a week, but every five days, but here with these brokers, you could day trade a hundred times or a thousand times in one day if you wanted to. But be careful if you take a thousand trades in one day because these brokers are not commission-free. They charge fees and commissions, they charge platform fees, they charge wiring fees, they charge maintenance fees, they do not have deposit insurance, and it creates some tax issues because now you have foreign income. You've got international account that you have to disclose, which isn't that big of a deal, but it's just something you have to be aware of. So there are definitely some cons with trading with an international broker. And as of today, right now, I wouldn't recommend doing it. Now, look, if you're already an international resident, if you live in Australia, you live in Italy or wherever you live, then by all means open an account in your local jurisdiction. But if you're a US resident, you no longer have to go to an international broker if you don't want to. There is a better option. But for me, in the earlier days, this was the secret. This right here was the secret to being able to grow a small account. If you wanted to grow a small account, you needed, really, to be with an offshore broker, where you could day trade as much as you wanted. So now let me talk about my 2017 small account challenge. So in 2017, I funded an account with $500, I'll do $500, $883.15. So times six, I had just under, I had about $30, $34, $3500, about $3500 in buying power. So $3,500 in buying power on day one, right, $583 times six, right, about that, somewhere right in that area. So on my first day, on the first day with that small account, I took two trades. I made $125 and 70 cents, boom, that was net of fees and commissions. So that means on day two, I had $700, seven times six. So now all of a sudden, I've got $4,000 plus in buying power. On day two, I made $187 and 89 cents, boom. So now coming into day three, I've got $889 times six. Now, my buying power is going higher and higher and higher. Let's see. So then on day, what was it, day five, right? So day five, I make $150, day six, I make $150, another $150. So now a couple of days later, I've got $300, I've got about $1,100, $1,100, it's about $1,200 times six, I've got nearly $7,000 or over $7,000 in buying power. Look at how quickly I'm growing my account. So now I've doubled my account in one week from $583 to $1,200, I continue trading it. In the second week, I make a total of $3,300. So now my account is up about $4,000 and four times six, I've got $24,000 in buying power. So now I'm able to start taking some bigger positions, right? There's a $2,300 green day. The third week, I make $4,000. The fifth week, I make $5,000, the sixth week, I make $2,000. I had a $7,000 trade in one single trade, but then the next day, well, I hit my max loss, which was bound to happen. I was taking a lot of risk. But the long story short is I locked up $16,000 right there in the first month and that was January of 2017. Now the secret here was that I was able to day trade 49 times in these 20 days. It was 20 days and I took 49 trades right here. My accuracy, 85%. My average winner is $545. My average losers were 988 and that was mostly because I had one really big loss here. I only had a total of seven losers, but I had one really big loss and that drew down my profit loss ratio for all of them. In spite of that, with high accuracy, I had a really good first month of January. So that was my first month of January. Now, by the way, I'll remind you of two things. Number one, my results are not typical, so I don't want you to assume that you'll achieve a similar result. Number two, my results had been audited by an independent third party CPA. So I started with $583. That was January 1, 2017, January 16,000 in profit, February, I made $60,000. By March, I crossed over $100,000 of profit. By the end of the year, I was at $335,000 in profit from the account that started with less than $600. In year two, I made half a million dollars. I'm still trading in the same account. Year three, $366,000. Year four, the pandemic begins and I make $4.5 million. Year five, I made $3.8 million, year six, $800,000, year seven, $300,000. And today, right now, I'm in the middle of year eight. I am still trading in this same exact account and my year-to-date P&L and we'll take away the finger swim challenge for just this report is sitting just over $695,000, net of fees and commissions, $825,000 gross. That is year to date. So again, I share that with you not because I want you to assume that my result is typical or that you'll achieve a similar result. But I want you to know beyond the shadow of a doubt that those gains are real. They have been audited. This is the independent accountants report right here. And if you're wanting to learn about trading, I sure think it makes a lot of sense to learn from someone who is actually trading the markets every single day with real money and I am. So then what changed? All right. So from when I got started trading in 2001, up until 2024, we had to deal with this PDT issue. But something changed. This year, something changed. On May 31st, 2024, we had a game-changing rule, T1 Settlement. So what T1 Settlement means is that in the past, if you took a trade, you bought a stock today, you bought it and sold it. You wouldn't be able to trade with that same money for three days. It took three days for that trade to settle. Now, a couple of years ago, they changed it to two days. And then just this year, they changed it to one day. And what that means is you could trade all of your money today. Tomorrow, your buying power is reset. It's back to the profit and loss of today plus whatever you had from the day before. So your buying power resets overnight. That is a really big deal. Now, here's why this is really important, especially for growing a small account. And you're actually going to be able to compare the progress of me growing a small account right now versus January of 2017. So this T1 rule, by the way, this also brings up the topic of cash account versus margin account. So historically, traders have always used margin accounts because you want to be able to get in and get out immediately. You don't have time to sit and wait for a trade to settle for three days. For two days, no way. And for one day, typically, we would just say, let's just use a margin account. But margin accounts combine leverage. And I think that that's a problem. Margin doesn't inherently require you to have a leverage account. I think they should stair step it. And what I mean by that is I think there should be actually three types of accounts. I think the first account should be a cash account, which we already have. A cash account means you put in $5,000. You can buy all $5,000 worth of stock today. Once you sell the trade, you've got to wait overnight for the trade to clear. And then the next day, your $5,000 is ready to trade again. And that's because of T1 settlement. And then I think we should have a margin account, which is settlement only. And so this margin account would waive T1. So it's say there's no T1, trade settle instantly. So you buy $5,000 of stock, you can sell it, and you can buy it right back right now. And then you have margin plus leverage and shorting. And this would be the highest tier. So this is great for beginners, you know, beginners, well, yeah, beginners, that's fine. This is more, this is going to be more intermediate, I for intermediate. And this is going to require more experience. All right, so beginner, intermediate experience, and this would waive T1 as well. You can day trade as much as you want, but with the four times leverage and the ability to short, that's where you get a lot more risk. But for whatever reason, the market is sometimes a little antiquated. This is grouped together. So even though you may not want the leverage, because you don't want to take the risk of losing money on leverage, even though you may not want to short, once you have a margin account, you get both. And you know what? I think that this is an interesting issue because I think that the brokers want you to have margin and leverage, they want you to trade on leverage. Why? Why do they want that? Well, you know, with a commission-free broker, the more you trade, the more money they make, that's because of payment for order flow. Payment for order flow is based on every share that is traded. So every share you trade it, you trade, your broker gets a kickback. So the more shares you trade, the more kickback your broker receives. So wouldn't their incentive be to encourage you to trade as much as possible? And their incentive may also, in fact, be to get rid of the PDT rule entirely to increase and encourage more trading, but they may not have control over that. But what they can say is, look, when you get margin, you get leverage and go ahead and use that leverage to trade as much as you want. In fact, please do because cha-ching, cha-ching, cha-ching. Remember, you're the commodity at these big brokers. That's, that's the deal. That's the trade off. It's free and you're the commodity. You help them make money. Okay. So right now with T1 settlement, if you open a cash account, your trades will settle overnight and that has become a game changer. All of a sudden it's worthwhile to consider using a cash account when in the past, it wasn't. So let's talk about the pros and cons of trading in a cash account with a small account. So the pros are that you've got no commissions, no platform fees, and you've got insured deposits, boom, boom, boom, and of course now trades settle overnight. Now the cons, you still have the PDT rule and it's cash only, you have no leverage. So there are some cons here, but this balance is getting a lot better. Of course, prior to T1, and I should probably, I'll just go back and add this in. So I'll just add the biggest game changer here, of course, is T1 settlement. So prior to T1 settlement, these were still true. You still had no commissions. You still had no platform fees. You still had insured deposits, but you had to wait two days for it to take a trade. So it just wasn't worth it. It didn't make sense. But now with T1 settlement, that kind of changes things. All right. So T1 settlement, let's look at my small account challenge that began on September 1st in 2024. So September 1st, 2024, I funded account with thinkorswim and my goal is to grow it as quickly as possible. Now, let's look at that first. Basically, this was the approach that I took. I knew that I could trade my entire balance once each day. So there were some days where I took two trades because the first trade didn't use all of my buying power. So I still had a little bit left over. So I was like, okay, I'll take a second trade. But for the most part, I didn't take for the most part, I took one trade on most days, as you could see here. And for the most part on the days where I traded, I used all of my buying power. But I also had a number of no trade days. So first day, I'm up $396, second day, $526, and then no trades on Friday. There was nothing that looked good Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, nice progress. And this was my biggest green day that I've had so far. This just ended up being a fantastic trade, one, two, three, four, five days in. That was, that was really nice. That's the best day I've had so far. And then day six, day seven, day eight, day nine, you can see no trades on Thursday, no trades Friday, no trades Friday. In fact, Fridays have been a day where I haven't taken a lot of trades. And I did take a trade last Friday. But for the most part, Fridays have been a little bit light on trades. And I think there is a reason for that. The strategy that I trade, what I'll share with you as we get further into this episode is to focus on stocks that have breaking news. But most companies are likely to put out breaking news early in the week because they want traders to see the news and to buy up shares of their company. They're more likely to put out bad news on a Thursday or Friday and hope that it gets forgotten over the weekend. So their stock doesn't get beaten up so badly. So Friday is not a great day for a breaking news trader like myself. So through this challenge, I so far have 15 days and I want to update you on the progress from the last five days. So from the last time that we had an update here, I had day 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and must have been a day 15 here. So these are the last five days right here, the last six days. And you can see I made let's see about $1,500 that week and about 14, 1500 this week, this week, the first week of October, you've got to include the profit from the end of September. So in total right now, this account has produced 8,446 dollars of profit, accuracy, 89%. I've had two losses. My accuracy was around 92%, came down a little bit, have had two losses. Average winners, $518, average losers, $187. Not bad. That's pretty good. But let's compare 2017 to 2024 because something is going to stand out here. In 2017, over the course of 20 days, I took 2.45 trades per day. That's how many trades I took per day. So that meant through that period, $16,000 of profit, that, no, that was great. $16,000 here in 2024, how many trades have I taken? I've taken 15, I've had 15 days, I've taken a total of 19 trades, which means the number of trades I'm taking is 1.26 trades. So I'm trading at half the speed as when I did the small account challenge in 2017. And I think this is going to be the biggest challenge for a beginner trader. Is, are you willing to trade at half the speed? Now, there's another thing we got to factor in here. Remember that in 2017, I had six times leverage. I funded that account with $600. Now, $600 was a tiny amount of money with 583 times six gave me $3,600 in leverage. This account, this is a retirement account. It's a Roth IRA and I funded it with two contributions of $6,500, which means this account began with 13,500, which is actually about 20, 20 times bigger. The account is about 20 times bigger than the account that I used with thinkers or with with the broker in 2017. So the account is larger, but I'm trading less and clearly the growth is slower. So now we've got to ask this kind of big question and which is better. So for a skilled trader, which I was in 2017, with a track record of success, an international account will be the tool that maximizes returns in the shorter period of time in spite of the fees. Yes, you'll have fees and commissions, but even in spite of that, it's still worth it. So the fees and commissions, by the way, um, during 2017 were about $1,600, $1,600. So, you know, that's about 10% of the profit. Well, this is net of that profit. So I guess the total profit was $17,600. So the fees and commissions were like 8%. It's not nothing, but, you know, it's not that bad either. $16,000 from an initial starting balance of 600 bucks is fantastic versus $8,000 from an initial starting balance of 13,000. So yes, both of them are showing progress. Both of them have similar, um, similar levels of accuracy, but one of them, I'm restricted because I have no leverage and I'm restricted based on how many trades I can take per day. So I think for me as a skilled trader, there's no doubt in my mind that I will grow an account faster every single time that you give me an account with six times leverage and no PDT rule. I mean, let's get real. Of course, I'm going to grow an account faster in that setting. But the key variable is the skill as a beginner trader, even if you have, let's say a track record of trading in a simulator with some success. That would be great, but trading with real money, you've got to make that leap. Transitioning from the sim to the real money requires having a period of kind of conditioning yourself to experiencing losses, recognizing that now you've got fees, now you've got commissions and kind of dealing with the emotion that comes with that. So I would think for most beginner traders, the better transition at this point would be to go from a simulated trading account to a cash account to slowly grow that cash account, continue trading in the simulator while you're doing the cash account. And then once the cash account grows and you've built some confidence at that point, consider the international account to grow the account faster or waiting until you're above $25,000. Now, the fact is here, even though I started with 13,000, I'm 15 days in and my account is up, well, it's up about 60%, right? 50% would be 6,500. So the accounts up, you know, 60%, something like that. That's rounding, but it's up 60% in 15 days. Can't complain about that. That's great, but that is going to take a little bit more patience to grow. So my argument here is that for a beginner trader using real money, perhaps for the first time, the cash account is going to force something very important. It's going to force discipline of quality over quantity. Progress will be slower, but I would argue that it's a better way to get started. I would even speculate. I wonder if a trader forced to focus on quality, therefore forced to focus on accuracy, if that would perhaps be a trader more likely to be successful long term. When you have the guard rails on, they prevent you from making a big mistake because here's the interesting thing with trading. There's a few, there's a few things that I've noticed over my years. A trader, I would say, when we talk about failure, right, we talk about failure, we know that most day traders lose money. And I would say they lose money for one of two reasons. Reason number one is no strategy. They have no strategy. They have no set of rules. They don't know what they're doing. Reason number two is no discipline. So dis, sorry, discipline. So the problem here with lack of discipline is that I could give you the strategy, but if you're not willing to follow the rules of the strategy, you're not going to be profitable. So a failure comes from really those two main points. You're in a position right now where you don't need to fail for a lack of strategy because I'm going to share with you in today's episode, the strategy that I'm using in my small account. Did I have to modify it a little bit for my 2024 challenge slightly because I can't trade as frequently as I did in 2017, but more or less, it's the same strategy, six, seven, eight years later, same strategy. In fact, I've been trading this strategy pretty much for my entire career, from when I first got started and became profitable. My early years, when I was still testing the water, I was doing a little bit of everything, but this is a strategy that helped me turn the corner and I've been trading it since then. So when I think about success in trading, it comes down to a few core components that need to be in place. The first is accuracy. So by focusing on quality, you're focusing on high accuracy. Here's the thing that I think is really interesting. When we look at my metrics and we're going to compare the metrics, we're going to go back to the slide just before. So we'll compare metrics. When we look at the accuracy here, eighty, eighty nine percent right here, this is really solid accuracy, eighty five percent, not bad, but I'm focusing on quality even higher in this challenge. So eighty nine percent accuracy, I'm going to go back to the whiteboard. So eighty nine percent accuracy, which is great. And that feeds a profit loss ratio, profit loss ratio, where in total, so far, I have 17 winners and only two losers. Average winners are five hundred eighteen dollars. Average losers are a hundred and eighty seven. If I asked you, would you, would you take a trade knowing your accuracy is eighty nine percent and your average losers are only a hundred, eighty seven. Your average winners are five hundred. Would you take the next trade? And I hope the answer would be yes, because based on this track record, although you have the chance of losing, as we always do, your metrics clearly support that as long as you take 10 more trades and you can maintain this accuracy, you're going to do well. This accuracy comes from following the rules of the strategy. So rule one, two, three, four, five, we're going to break those down in just a moment. So you're going to have them. You're going to be able to walk away with those rules today. So this high accuracy feeds a good, a solid profit loss ratio. That feeds a calendar where you've got a really great consistency. You look at your calendar and all of a sudden you're seeing, wow, I'm my, I'm just having green day, green day, green day. The, I don't have a single red day so far here on this. Now, knock on wood, it'll happen. I'll have a red day at some point. I did have a red day back in this challenge here and it was kind of a big one, but that's fine. I still recovered from it. So that high-profile loss ratio feeds accuracy and it feeds, sorry, feeds consistency. And then what is consistency feed? This second level, which is critical of self confidence. So when you have self confidence, what do you do? You increase the trade share size. So you start taking larger positions. Larger positions doesn't affect accuracy, but it will improve your profit loss ratio. These numbers are going to get bigger and the total profit is going to get bigger. So then total, so we'll just do total dollar amount gets bigger, right? So then this is getting bigger. Self confidence is growing and then you start increasing the trade quantity. TQ goes up and now you increase trade quantity and it's possible as you increase trade quantity, maybe by branching a little outside your, your go to taking a little more risk, your accuracy could decline a little bit. But as long as you maintain a solid profit loss ratio, you're going to see increasing trades results in more profit. So there's an interesting relationship here with quant, with profit and number of trades. So if you only take, if you only take a couple of trades, you're not going to make a lot of money, right? So if you're only doing, let's say, this is going to be profit here on this side. And this is number of trades, number of trades. So if you're doing only one trade a day, you're not going to make a lot of money. It's going to be slow going. You'll make a little bit, but it's going to be slow. You're taking five trades a day, you're going to do better. You're taking 10 trades a day, you're going to do better, but at a certain point, you get to taking 1,500 trades a day and you're actually going to be making less than your spot back here. So it's always our goal to try to be right here. You know, we, and for me, to be honest, I'm often right about here. I push it a little too hard. I start to lose and then that's my cue to walk away. Some people stop right here and the challenge was stopping there is you don't know if your high watermark was here or if you were going to go significantly higher before rolling over. So I actually push a little harder myself and I think that's okay for a season trader, but for a beginner, it is always good to walk away with profit. But this is kind of the interesting thing. Now, let's just say on any given day, if we're going to focus on quality of setups, and I love using this whiteboard, I think you guys can probably tell, if we're going to focus on a plus quality setups on any given day, how many? So this is going to be quality and this is going to be number. How many a quality sets do you think there are each day? Maybe depends on the quality of the market, a hot market, but let's say five to 10. So maybe you get five to 10 trades, be quality setups, be quality, maybe here we could get 15 to 30. You start doing C quality setups. Maybe this is where you're like 30 to a hundred. And then you're going to D quality setups. You could do a hundred plus. You could do a lot of trades, but just because you can do a lot of trades, doesn't mean that's a good idea because what's your accuracy? Now, my accuracy here is between 85 and 89%. When I'm really trading just a quality, I go down to B quality. I'm at like 70 to 75%. Maybe it shouldn't be a gap there, but you get the idea more like 70 to 80%. I go down to C quality and now I'm going to be between 50 and 70%. I go down here, I'm below 50%. So this isn't an exact science because when I'm trading, when I look at all my trades, and of course I have years and years of trading data all in the software that I use, I'm going to pull it up right here so you could take a look at it. So this is going to be going to clear all my filters out. We're going to have about 30,000 trades here, not 28,000. So rounding up 30,000, 28,000 trades. And from these trades, while I can sort them based on day of the week, time of the day, week, month of the year, I can focus on the price of the stock. I trade and everything else. This doesn't tell me whether or not the setup was a quality or B quality. I, that's not something that I, that the software knows. And so I would have to manually tag it. But what I do know is that when I do a small account challenge, I'm typically up around 85 to 89%, which tells me that when I only trade a quality, a plus setups, that's my accuracy, my running accuracy over the course of the last, you know, 10 years or so is about 60, 68% as you can see right here in this column. So 68%. And that's going to be trading a mix of everything from a quality down to, you know, periodically lower quality setups. So my personal average is 68% right here. And that works. I've made a lot of money over $10 million with that accuracy. And it's because I've maintained a good profit loss ratio. But that's kind of the next thing here is profit loss ratio. So profit loss ratio up in this area, this is when I'm maintaining two to one. So average winners of 500, average losers of 250 down here is more like, you know, one to one down here is sometimes 0.5 to one, which means one to one, I'm risking a hundred to make a hundred point five to one. I'm risking a hundred to make only 50. So now we're starting to go inverted and down here, it could be even 0.25 to one. So when you have a negative profit loss ratio, what the statistics tell us is that in order to maintain accuracy in, sorry, in order to maintain profitability right here, if you have a one to one ratio, 50% is your break even. If you have a two to one ratio where your profits are twice what your losers are, you only need to be right 33% of time to break even. But if you have a one to two where your losers are twice your winners, you've got to be right 66% of time to break even. And so when you're trading up here, well, if you're trading with a negative profit loss ratio where your losers are twice your winners, it's going to be hard for you to be a profitable trader, just flat out. It's going to be harder. So we always want to try to get traders at least at one to one where 50% is a break even. And if your winners can be bigger than your losers on average, you're going to do better. And of course, that's what I'm able to do when I'm focusing on a quality setups. So for most beginner traders, the right approach is to start by focusing on quality because while I'm right 85 to 89% of time, focusing on a quality, my ability to judge what is a quality is going to be different from yours because I have years of educated intuition, right? So that puts me up here. So a beginner trading a quality could potentially be at 50 or 60% accuracy because you're still developing your own edge, your own sense of intuition. Now when I trade B and C quality setups, my accuracy goes down. My profit loss ratio goes down. And so I kind of at a certain point here have to say, you know, there's a place where increasing the total of trades is going to decrease the amount of money I make. And when the only way to increase the number of trades you're taking is to reduce the quality. So this is going to be trading, you know, A quality, B quality, C quality, D quality. So maybe the perfect is when I'm mostly trading A and B quality setups. But when I started introducing C and D quality, that's when we have problems. Now, a nuance here that can be a little bit of a challenge is that a lot of beginner traders don't realize that that you have to adapt to different market conditions. So in a really hot market, you may be able to trade, see quality setups and still have some profit, whereas in a cold market, even B quality is too risky. So now why don't we start talking about how we actually quantify and qualify? What is A, what is B quality? And what is the actual strategy that I'm trading every single day? Now, by the way, if you guys find this interesting, I will put a link, I'll put it to the top of the comments so you can download my small account strategy as a PDF guide. You can print it out and put it next to your desk and you can use that as a resource and you can start implementing the techniques, the strategy and the system I'm going to share with you today in your own trading. But I'm going to ask you, please practice in a simulator before you put real money on the line. Although this strategy works really well for me and it works well for a lot of other traders, it's not a guarantee that it's going to work for you. I'm going to give you the strategy, you've got to learn it and you've got to show that you can have the discipline to follow the rules. So now let's go jump back over here to our slide deck. So we'll go full screen on the slide deck. So when we compare 2017 to 2024, there's no question that I outperformed myself in the 2017 challenge. I was able to trade more frequently and I was able to benefit from six times leverage. But it doesn't mean that I can't grow a small account using a cash only account. I really think that for most beginner traders, a beginner trader using money for the first time, the cash account will force the discipline of quality of a quantity and while progress is slower, it's a better way to get started. So this is the small account strategy. Step one, stock selection, step two, technical and fundamental analysis, step three, executing the trades. And I'm going to go through this quickly because those of you guys who have watched some of my full-length episodes before may already know a good deal about these three steps. I will also put some more info in the description that you guys can follow along with. So step one is trying to find the strongest stock each day for my strategy. Now, as a trader who's focusing on trading momentum, I'm looking to buy things that are moving up. So I buy high and sell higher. So we have a stock moving up like this. In fact, they don't usually move, they kind of go up like this. They pull back a little bit, they go up, they pull back. I'm going to buy these pullbacks right here to ride the next leg higher. That's what momentum trading is all about. We trade with the trend. We look for an established trend and we want to buy at low risk entry points and ride the next leg higher. So my, my technique, the strategy that I use is finding the stock that's moving up each day on this software. This is software that I've developed. I have a development team that works for me. We've been building it out for the last seven years. And this software searches the market in real time for stocks that are moving up. It's kind of like radar. And so this is a stock CING that's up 161% today and has 95 million shares of volume. That's the type of stock I'm interested in trading. In fact, that was the leading percentage gainer in the entire market on that day. It's relative volume was 1063, which means in plain English, it was trading 1063 times higher volume today than on average. That 95 million shares is not normal for this stock. So why would a stock all of a sudden trade on 95 million shares of volume? Let's think about that. Now, these are, in my opinion, my humble opinion, the best stocks for day trading. So this was CING locking up $14,000 of profit on the day, not bad for one day of trading. And realistically, for about two hours of one day, this is another day trading the exact same setup, leaving percentage gainer stock that goes from $250 to $10 a share up $24,000. This is a day I'm up $11,000 trading a stock that squeeze from 50 cents up to $1.15 on news. This is a damn up $45,000 trading a stock, squeezing higher. This stock went from a dollar a share to about $13 a share. That's fantastic. So finding the best stocks each day requires understanding the dynamics between supply and demand. There are four characteristics of demand I'm going to share with you and one of supply. Number one for demand is high relative volume. Now, five times relative volume is my minimum threshold. That stock was trading at CING at 1063 times relative volume. So that far exceeded my minimum. But a stock has to be trading on at least five times higher volume today than is average for that stock and that signifies that something special is going on. The stock must already be up 10 percent on a day. There should be a news event that's moving the stock higher. It could be quarterly earnings. It could be FDA announcements in the case of a biotech or pharmaceutical company. But there should be some type of catalyst pushing the stock higher. Number four, most day traders prefer stocks between $1 and $20 because with a small account, you can afford to buy more shares. And number five, the number of shares available to trades should be less than 10 million. This is the float. That's the term for the number of shares available to trade. So this is the supply and these are all characteristics of demand. So now, once I find a stock on my scanners that is moving up, that's up 50 percent, 100 percent or whatever the case is, I then try to understand the catalyst and I do that by looking at the stock quote window and checking to see the recent news headline. I read the recent news headline and that constitutes fundamental analysis. I'm analyzing the actual true reason that stock is moving higher. From that point forward, I do my technical analysis. Now, those of you guys who haven't read my or watched my class, I have a deep dive, an ultimate guide to technical analysis and how to read candlestick charts, which I highly recommend you check out. That will walk you through how to read each one of these individual candlesticks, because this is kind of like learning a language. Each candlestick is a letter, putting the letters together, form words. And so these multi candlestick patterns create buy and sell signals. They're right here on the chart. Now, if you haven't learned how to read them yet, that's OK. There's still time to learn by all means. The market's not going anywhere, but this is like learning a language, like a language. It helps if you can fully immerse yourself in a community of other people, speaking that language and that's what you get at warrior trading. So I encourage you guys to come check out our website and maybe check out a two-week trial and become a member of the community and see what it's like to really watch over my shoulder every single day. Now, step two, after I've done my technical analysis and fundamental analysis, step three is executing the trade and this is where I get into my actual trading software, I'm pressing the buy button, I'm pressing the sell buy. Now, there's a lot of detail here and I think the best thing for you guys to do is to check out a two-week trial where you can watch over my shoulder every single day in real time while I'm trading because it moves quickly. And one of the things that you get to benefit from is piggybacking off of all of my years of educated intuition because you don't have to do this on your own. You don't have to trade by yourself. Now, all of our members who are part of warrior trading get a trading plan and that trading plan outlines the setups that I trade, the stocks where I get in, where I get out, it breaks everything down for you. So you can practice trading these strategies in a simulator side by side with me. And I always encourage traders to execute this trading plan and to follow the one trade per day challenge. This is just like what I'm doing in this cash only account with Thinkorswim. It's one trade a day focusing on one entry, one exit, keeping it simple and building a track record of success. That track record of success becomes your North Star because those are your metrics that tell you exactly what works for you. And you know, as long as you follow your strategy, you can continue to produce those types of metrics. So I always ask students to do the one day, one trade per day challenge before scaling up, prove that you can be consistent with just one, maybe two trade per day and I've been really happy with how our members have been doing with that. So I encourage you to do that as well, whether or not you're going to become a member for your trading, whether or not you do a two week trial, you could do the one trade per day challenge. That's a challenge that you do with real money and then you simulate, you do simulate a trading for the rest of the day. So basically you do one trade with real money and then you switch to the sim. So one of the things that's nice with Thinkorswim for instance is that you can trade with real money right here. So you can, you've got your real money account and then you can log out and log back in and trade with paper money. So when you're trading with paper money, it's just pretend. So you could trade as much as you want, but you don't have to take real losses. Now, it's important to gain experience and actively trading in a simulator gives you that experience. You've got to test out how these strategies that work really well for me work for you. You got to develop your own sense of intuition. It takes time and I'll tell you, growing a small account has never been easy. But I think right now with T1 settlement cash accounts are really the way to go for any beginner trade. So I hope you found this episode super helpful. If you did, I hope you hit the thumbs up. I hope you subscribe to the channel. And as always, our mind you, trading is risky. So manage your risk, take it slow and I'll see you here for the next upload real soon.