# 43. +$104,709 TODAY with the 3 Hour MACD Short Squeeze (Full Training)
# id=dpfcRgMewew (whisper base.en)

What have I always said about day trading the winners are always clustered together as are the losers And when you're down, you feel like you're never gonna be up again I know what it's like to be in the midst of a deep drawdown and to be asking when is the market gonna turn? But guess what just yesterday we had the spark that has ignited a new hot cycle that spark was a 2,000 percent short squeeze that's right a stock from about two dollars and 50 cents a share goes up to over $59 a share in one day and just like that everything has changed So in today's episode I'm gonna share with you exactly what that means for traders and of course I'm gonna walk you through the case study of today's trades because guess what today? I am up over one hundred thousand dollars in real money profit trading for about three hours That is the difference between a hot market and a cold market now of course if you watch my recaps You see me post every single day whether it's a red or green and what you might notice is that often my red days are clustered together I'll have back-to-back red days as I did just last week. I wasn't expecting that 2,000 percent short squeeze it was a surprise to short sellers and it was a surprise to me, but here's the important thing I know how to adapt so when I see something like that happen I pivot quickly. I'm gonna show you exactly how I do that Now I should probably tell you by the way my name is Ross Cameron. I'm a full-time trader I funded my first account with real money in 2001 so I've been doing this for a long time and I want you to know that my results are not typical But in fact, I think it's my very atypical results that make this so interesting because I can speak to you about What is actually working in today's market and share with you decades of trading intuition that I've picked up along the way So let's go ahead and jump into the slides. We've actually got a slide deck for today We've got our chart and we're gonna talk about yesterday's move because this was what sparked this round of momentum And in fact, I saw over a million dollars in trading losses posted by short sellers on social media yesterday So there's no question that there were traders that got completely wiped out. They didn't expect this insane move The chart is almost it's it's almost hard to gain perspective of it because it's like Oh, that was just a strong stock and then you realize wait a second this down here was two dollars and thirty two cents And that right there is sixty dollars a share What in the world? How does that even happen? Well, I'll share with you exactly how it happens because you know what? It's not the first time I've seen that happen and it will not be the last time So if you missed it don't feel bad guess what I didn't trade drug yesterday That stock went up two thousand percent and I didn't take a single trade on it You want to know why it didn't fit within my strategy at the time of day that the move occurred And so the right thing for me to do was to follow my rules now I felt like I was getting punished in a way for following my rules and watching something go up that much without me because perhaps On another year when I was trading better in the middle of the day Maybe I would have taken that trade and maybe I would have crushed it But just for the last few months for this year I haven't been doing as well mid-day and so I taught myself stop putting your head out there and getting chopped up in the middle of the day That's a rule and you have to have discipline to follow the rules if you create rules and then you don't follow them They're worthless and this is something that I struggle with at times and you've probably seen in my recaps So so for me even though I didn't trade it I knew that it represented an opportunity and that it just might be the spark for a round Of hot momentum and that's exactly what we're seeing today. So let's jump into the slide deck how I made a hundred and four Thousand seven hundred nine dollars and sixty nine cents in just about three hours of trading and this was trading a parabolic short squeeze That's our case study from today ATNF now I actually traded a number of different stocks today Well for different stocks in total and I'm green on all four But this was by far the biggest winner and this is the stock today that went up one Thousand percent yesterday closed and around it's like a dollar or thirty eight cents dollar 50 Ended up going up to about nineteen dollars a share this morning on breaking news that came out at eight a.m. Top of the hour now that's part of my strategy to trade breaking news and I'll share with you something about drug yesterday Which also caused me to be a little cautious on it But these are the topics for today's class number one the surprise two thousand percent short squeeze We're gonna analyze the chart from yesterday number two my momentum trading strategy and the case study of my entries and exits and trades Today on ATNF along with the other stocks. I traded number three I'm gonna share with you the pros and cons of parabolic momentum trading because as fun as it is It's not without risk number four. I'm gonna share with you the tools required for this strategy and number five I'm gonna share with you at the end of this episode a Recommended reading list for those of you guys that want want to learn more now I want to let you guys know this Friday at 1 p.m. Eastern I'm gonna be teaching my intro to day trading course as a live broadcast I will post a link it'll be pinned to the top comment and it'll be posted in the top of the description So you guys can register to attend the first thousand people who join the live broadcast will be able to type questions So at the end of teaching my intro to day trading course We will do Q&A those you guys who are watching this recap weeks and in the future months or even years from now You can still watch the recording. So as soon as the live event is over after Friday at 1 p.m. We'll just swap out the link to be Instead of having you join the live class. It'll just be downloading the recording So you guys should please check that out anyone who's watching this right now today Who wants to learn more about my strategy and how over all of these years? I've been able to maintain such a high level of consistency How been able to find these types of stocks have been able to minimize my drawdowns please tune in to the free Intro to day trading course again That'll be this Friday at 1 p.m. And those you guys watching this weeks months or years from now you can watch the recording All right, so make sure you check that out. I think you're really gonna enjoy it So now let's go ahead and start with number one the surprise 2,000 percent squeeze that ignited this round of hot momentum So this really was the spark and this is how it always is I mean, I think back over a decade and I can remember it's like one specific stock and that starts the next round in 2014 which is 10 years ago. I remember when dr y s this is a Cargo shipping container company ended up going for about five dollars a share all the way to a hundred and fifteen Dollars and that stock started this cycle of hot momentum I remember it so specifically because at that time that was one of the biggest short squeezes that I had yet to see in Like real time actually watching it and it was Incredible and I vowed that I was gonna learn how to trade them really well because you know what at that time I actually struggled to trade those stocks that were so volatile when we talk about the pros and cons of this strategy You'll understand that while there are some great pros And this is where some traders with experience like me can make a lot of money for beginner traders It can feel a bit chaotic because these stocks are moving so quickly And so sometimes as a beginner you feel like it's easier to trade things that are in a little bit of a tighter range And I get that but I also think it's important to aspire to be able to get to the level to capitalize on these types of moves Because when a stock goes up 2,000 percent clearly, there's a lot of opportunity So this was the spark on drug and I think this is also a really interesting Kind of then the nuance of what happened here So I'm gonna pull up my charts and we're gonna jump into the the actual software here and break this down So this is the chart on drug. I think what happened here was we had a stock that essentially on day one which was back here was moving up slowly But without any real specific catalyst, it was just sort of slowly pulling away Now the company has had news about psilocybin research They're in the medical space and you know, they're doing this kind of new a I don't want to say new age But you know this sort of new medicine psilocybin is the active ingredient in mushrooms that people, you know I guess I've been taking probably for forever But now there's you know some some movement about the FDA wanting to give an opportunity for some of these biotech companies to investigate How that active ingredient can be used for the treatment of certain disorders rather than just saying oh, it's a drug and it's illegal So anyways, this is one of those companies involved in that space and you know It started to kind of pull away it goes from you know a dollar forty to a dollar eighty to two bucks Nothing crazy and then all of a sudden into the clothes it just rips up here to 360 But the fact is there really wasn't any clear catalyst behind this move You know, it wasn't like the company put out amazing news right here and all of a sudden people are like, okay They've gotten an approval or blah blah blah blah You know that the stock just kind of slowly pulls away and this was at from 3 p.m. To about 4 p.m Which is a time of day that we sometimes call power hour So most stocks that have breaking news the news will come out either Pre-market before the opening bell at 9 30 or the news comes out after hours after 4 p.m But between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m Stocks that have been relatively strong during the day their daily candle is getting ready to close And so when I say daily candle I'm referring to the daily chart on these stocks And so drug right here when that daily candle is getting ready to close This is where some traders come in and say well, you know what this is closing really strong and that means this could have a chance of Continuing the trend into tomorrow So there are traders out there that focus on looking at stocks that are strong from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. To buy for an overnight hold into the next day And of course, then there are just some traders who actively still are trading the market at that hour and so they're just capitalizing on the intraday volatility So in any case drug ends up squeezing up to 240 250 all the way up to 280 and then to 360 goes all the way up here But then it drops back down to 280 and this is where traders who take the opposite approach of shorting Adding short right here creating a negative position are then looking for this just to kind of unwind back down towards where it came from Especially given the fact that there wasn't any real clear catalyst And so what you're starting to look at here is one side of a head and shoulders pattern And then it usually comes back down like this So if you're taking a short adding adding adding adding you're looking for that next leg down and then the move lower And so what I think happened was going into after hours you had people that were adding on this to the short side I'm looking for that drop back down and a lot of these after hours traders are in California Because the time zone makes it easier for them to trade East Coast traders usually check out early European traders They're gone by after hours. They trade pre-market But you do still have traders in California in Hawaii and in Japan who will still trade through after hours here So you've got some of those traders and I don't want to say bad things about people from California because it's a good It's a great. It's a great. Well, look, you know what? I'll just leave it at that. There's a lot of good things about California, but you know what I'm saying so So anyways these California short sellers they get short in this thing and it starts to look like it's gonna unwind So then they go to say they're like all right the market closes. It's now 8 p.m. Eastern So they're done for the day. Okay, so it's 5 p.m. In California time. They go do other stuff They do another stuff the next morning. It's 4 a.m. Which is only 1 a.m. In California So they're not even up trading but East Coast traders log in they look at this and they're like oh this stock This is the previous high up here 360. This is the next high at 340 and now we're starting to stare step down So people are most likely shorting it with a stop right around here or right around here Those are your triggers because it's clearly on the back side of this move So we like to trade as a momentum trader the front side and I don't like to trade the back side So yesterday morning this was not in play for me at all. I made $10,000 trading other stocks I didn't try I didn't touch drug, but then at the open It squeezes from 250 and it just rips up to 330 it goes up to 387 and it's halted up And all of a sudden just like that it's kind of wild about four million shares of volume and boom It's halted up. So now it's all the way through this high and at that point the people who are shorting this for a swing trade to go Lower are now in trouble and the people who added new short positions pre-market hoping it would go back to about $1.50 or whatever The previous day before the the move which had known real catalyst. They're now getting you know pushed around They're now underwater. So at this time what I know about my own metrics is that I Do the best and this is just you know These are my own stats and everyone's stats are different But you know I'm an East Coast trader I trade early in the morning and of course when I trade in Europe I'll trade from 4 a.m. At times But I do the best from early and then my window is pretty much done by 11 a.m And that's just that's all time But if I look just at the last well just the last 30 days for instance It's been pretty clear that I make money up until 10 a.m. And after 10 a.m. I'm done So I'm actually losing money. All right, so because I've known that's been my metric I made the decision about a week ago that I was just gonna stop each day at 10 a.m. And that was it So this halted up here at 9 40 resumed at 9 45 It dips down it pops up to four dollars and 29 cents It pushes a little higher and I was like, you know guys I feel like I'm kind of at the end of my window. I've already made $10,000 today I don't need to push my luck So I don't take any trades on it now it ends up halting up again at 5 and the next thing You know it's halted up again at 7 50 It's halted up a third time at 10 and it goes all the way here up to 12 and then to 15 $16 a share Holy smokes, did I leave some money on the table? Well now I was presented with a real question. Do I break the ice and start trading it here? Now it's past 10 a.m. It's 10 50. It's 11 a.m. And I said no that would be breaking a rule You shouldn't do it because if you do it and you lose you're gonna be furious with yourself if you Keep trading you don't make any good money You'll still be annoyed with yourself because you broke your rule and if you make money You'll be happy you made money, but you also feel guilty you broke your rule So really no matter how I slice it I'm gonna come out of loser even if I make money because I will have lost discipline So anyway, so I didn't take any more trades on it But anyways, it ends up halting up here at about 12 40 Halt's up through the high a day It then dips and rips up to $30 a share and it pulls back it pushes up to 32 and we developed this level of kind of Resistance around 30 every time it got above $30 it rejected and at times Violently we had some violent rejections on this but then going into the clothes it Rips up to $44 a share now that one candle has a 10-point range So 35 to 45 back to 35 because it's a doji it dips down It squeezes up to the peak of fifty nine dollars and eighty six cents and then it starts to unwind So it ends up unwinding it comes back down and I didn't trade it yesterday and it didn't trade today But as I sat down this morning, I'm thinking something has changed right so that was the spark the beginning of the hot cycle And what changed is the following now. Let me hide my video so you can see everything on this slide So number one shorts had accounts blown up I mean we saw there were a lot of people posting on social media yesterday and I heard a number of people talking about it There were a lot of six figure losses 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 losses And I'm sure there were million dollar losses that we didn't hear about So the problem here is that when you have this type of just absolutely explosive move There's not a lot of opportunity when the stocks are halting and then opening higher to manage the loss So right in this area This is where it was really bad because it looked right here like this was the top at five It peaked it then did a false breakout and I think shorts added right there and then all of a sudden it rips and halts up Then it immediately is in a second halt immediately in a third halt and people are just getting out So that so this was the spot where I think shorts got hurt the most because this is an area where it's easy to take 20,000 shares and then suddenly be down 300,000 bucks So those were some big losses there and then this I mean this just gets insane all of a sudden It's going crazy and people who are still holding into after hours just got totally smoked on it So number one you got a lot of short sellers whose accounts got literally blown up Which means they are not trading today So they were someone who would have been selling as soon as a stock starts popping up today. They're gone. They're out So now we're gonna have fewer sellers We saw the same thing happen by the way last year where we had a stock that made a crazy move like this and It was pretty clear because there was one person I think it was one person maybe as a firm that would just dump on these stocks every time they would start to pop up And then we had this one stock like drug that went crazy And then after that we didn't see that seller at all And we had just several weeks of really clean momentum So my theory was that that one seller that one firm either turned off their algorithm Because they got blown up or they were blown up and so they were out of the market Whatever the reason was that seller was gone and so with fewer short sellers shorting into the moves I expected that today we would see height and volatility and bigger moves and a lot of short sellers You know if you think about it, if you just took a hundred thousand dollar loss yesterday, what are you going to do today? Now some are out for revenge. They're on emotional hijack and they're gonna hit anything and everything they see with big size So that's gonna be some traders, but most traders who've been at this for a while are gonna be sitting on the sidelines They're gonna be cautious, which means they're not gonna be shorting into that first pop They're gonna wait to make sure it's rolling over and keep a tight leash on it Longs are feeling some FOMO as was I I missed a huge move yesterday I shouldn't say I missed it because I chose not to trade it and that was following my rules But there was a huge move yesterday and they make any money on it So a lot of us are feeling a little FOMO and a lot of us are feeling a little more aggressive as we're looking for the next one So now the moves are amplified Volatilities increasing and we're seeing the phenomenon of sympathy Momentum and we saw it beginning yesterday and an IVF this one yesterday went from about 80 cents a share up to three bucks So a solid 300 400% move there are some traders that did really well on that then after hours yesterday We had STEC at a c-tech or s-tech this one went from about 50 cents a share all the way to five dollars All right, so a nice thousand percent move on this one. I traded this one today for nine thousand six hundred thirty four dollars a profit We got another trade on today We had a VS after hours that started to move from about a dollar up to what was it two dollars and fifty cents? Pre-market this one squeezed up and so when I sat down this morning VS was our leading percentage gainer This stock was already up like six hundred percent. It was unbelievable I mean these are just incredible rates of change for one single trading day So already up six hundred percent ended up today going up at almost a thousand percent as it hit a high of nine fifty Now I traded this one over as well and I'll show you my P&L in a second, but I'm up two thousand three hundred seventy nine dollars on this one So and then BDRX this one yesterday after hours sympathy momentum goes from five to thirteen in one five minute candle But it comes all the way back down this morning it goes up again It goes from eight to sixteen and I traded that one for about six thousand four hundred fourteen dollars So all of a sudden we've got five stocks this morning up over a hundred percent and yesterday our leading gainer was two thousand percent So clearly the control in the market has shifted from the bears to the bulls and that is what has changed So now let's talk about my trading strategy and I'm gonna share with you the P&L that I'm at on today I'm at ninety eight thousand seven hundred fifty four dollars in my main account plus I've got five thousand nine hundred fifty five dollars and thirty cents in my small account This is in my small account challenge over with thinkorswim in a cash-only account I used almost all of my buying power and I made over a dollar a share with a five thousand share position five thousand nine hundred fifty five dollars So I'll do a separate recap for the thinkorswim small account challenge It's not gonna upload today, but I'll do that soon, but this is where I'm at so combined a hundred and four thousand dollars on the day So let's talk about the strategy that I'm trading that allowed me to pull that kind of profit out of the market in three hours Step one is to find the stock moving it goes without saying that I'm not gonna make money buying and selling something at the same price Right? I need to find stocks that are moving and so when I first sat down this morning and I pulled well I pulled up my phone that's what I do every morning I pull up my phone I look at these scanners and I saw the leading gapper at the time was Let's see actually it was STEC and VS. These were our two leading gappers ATNF was not yet on the scan So when I first sat down and by the way, this is the day trade dash software that I've developed So I have a development team to build this out for me This is available for members at warrior trading warrior trading as software So we we have software and people subscribe to it So this is the this is the sort of the business that I have as well All right, so so this is a software that I'm using these scanners and I see this morning VS and STEC On the scans so first trade of the day. We're gonna go back to my very first trade and I had a lot of trades today Um, and then we had we also had OBDRX So when I first sat down, let me pull up BDRX This was actually the first one that I traded and the reason that I took my first trade on BDRX Was because when I looked at the chart, I saw that this was one of the stocks It made a big move after hours So one of the scanners that I run is after hours top gainers So I check all of these top gainers to see if one of these stocks is set up for a potential trade Pre-market before the opening bell and in fact, I traded three out of the four leading after hours top gainers So step one for me this morning was on BDRX, but before we do that Let's just let me walk you through my five-step process and then I'll show you the trades on BDRX and I'll show you the trades on ATNF and And the others okay, so step one is just to find the stock that's moving and I'm using my scanners to find these stocks So these scanners I've programmed them to search the entire market in real time for the stocks I think have the highest likelihood of making a big move now I cast in that relatively wide and then I manually sort through all of the alerts to decide which ones I think are good and which ones are not as good So I have access to the same exact software that you guys as members at Warrior trading are subscribed to as well I don't have any special filters. I have the exact same platform as you guys So in order to perform step one well, you've got to know how to use your stock scanners You've got to know what type of stocks have the potential to make big moves I talk about my five pillars of stock selection and you've got to know what type of stocks to avoid now I have this class on how to pick the best stocks for trading was your experience That's one that you guys could check out if you want to learn more But I'll also talk about this in my in the class. I'm gonna teach on Friday at 1 p.m So by the way those you guys who have not already registered make sure you check that out I will put the link again top of the comments and linked in the description So that's gonna be a live class It's gonna be Friday at 1 p.m Eastern and I'll then send out a recording so anyone watching this weeks or months from now you can just get the recording of the live Class and it's I'll be teaching my intro to day trading course Okay, so so that's step one so then step two is We're gonna go slideshow so then step two is Figuring out what the catalyst is now this is a little bit of a challenge because when you're in a really hot market It's not always clear in some cases that there actually was a catalyst in the case of drug yesterday There wasn't a clear catalyst and yet it still went up 2,000 percent So the absence of a catalyst is not an absolute deal-breaker According to my five pillars of stock selection, but it is it pretty important and it's preferred ATNF did have a catalyst and so that was good Step three and by the way, the skills required to analyze the catalyst and to understand it is You have to be able to understand different types of headlines You've got to be able to separate the logic of the news from the price action You have to understand fundamental analysis and SEC filings and you need a ability to understand secondary offering risk We'll talk about that more in class on Friday Now and my strategy step three is to perform technical analysis So this is the point where I'm actually pulling up the chart and I'm trying to decide whether or not I'm gonna take an entry and if I am gonna take an entry what my max loss is gonna be so I'm managing my downside risk Now this is something that a lot of beginner traders struggle with they'll pull up a chart like BDRX and they'll think oh This thing looks awesome I'm gonna go ahead and jump in and then next thing you know They're in this thing way too high and it ends up pulling back it drops back down and they get smoked They didn't know where to set their stop and they just overstay their welcome So I don't want to see that happen to you I would like you to be the type of trader who understands on the chart the right place to get in and the right place to sell And that means you've got to have a pretty good handle on technical analysis in the case of BDRX I'm looking at the five-minute, but I'm really getting zoomed in on my one-minute chart And then I'm getting zoomed in even further on my ten-second chart and in fact I didn't even trade this until we finally got this pullback right here I bought that pullback right there and that two-point move was enough for me to make six thousand dollars on it six thousand four hundred fourteen dollars and fifty cents So I didn't just hammer it right here or right here in the middle of this spike because if I had done that What's my max loss? Well, if we're gonna get real if you buy this right here, where was this recent support down here? So you're getting in at twelve with a stop at eight. That's four dollars a share of risk You can't do that. It doesn't make sense. I mean unless you can make eight dollars a share of profit I always like to think about it as two to one profit to loss So if I'm gonna risk, you know If I'm gonna risk a hundred it's to make two hundred or if I'm gonna risk a thousand is to make two thousand or ten thousand to make 20,000 or a hundred thousand to make two hundred thousand now I'll say I didn't risk fifty thousand dollars today to make a hundred thousand dollars I never took that type of risk because I didn't make the hundred thousand all-in-one trade It was the cumulation of dozens and dozens of trades throughout the day But BDRX was actually the first trade and on this one as I pulled up the chart I saw this squeeze and I thought okay, we're coming up right here I'm gonna watch this pullback and so I bought this during this dip right down here And I actually got filled at twelve forty one twelve sixty two and twelve sixty four I bought forty five hundred shares on my first trade that was on the bottom of this candle right here So I got in right about there now in the one minute chart you might have a hard time understanding that entry So I'll show you on the ten second chart to get zoomed in a little bit more So on the ten second chart on this it popped up to fourteen right here It then dipped down right here and when it dipped down here and bounced off this level and came up right here I noticed a large buyer at twelve twenty so when I saw that big buyer at twelve twenty I pressed the buy button at twelve forty so the way I think about it is that if there is a big buyer here at twelve twenty They're creating support because now what I know is that if I want to get out at twelve twenty I can just sell to that big buyer so if it's a ten thousand share buyer and I'm only buying forty five hundred shares I can just sell that person at twelve twenty so that means with forty five hundred shares at a twelve about a twelve fifty Average I was risking about thirty cents a share which is twelve hundred dollars. That was my first trade of the day Twelve hundred dollars of risk. I mean with forty five hundred shares It goes up to a high here of thirteen twenty nine and then it pushes up to thirteen seventy nine And I'm up four thousand dollars on the first trade over a dollar a share just like that boom So that's thirteen twelve thirteen hundred dollars of risk for forty five hundred dollars of profit That's a three-to-one profit to loss ratio now for those of you guys that are new a new way to trading I'm gonna talk about all of that in quite a bit of detail in my intro to day trading course So don't worry all right now And anyway, so this ends up squeezing a little bit higher goes up to fifteen and I keep trading it through this area and end up making about Sixty four hundred dollars on it. So that was good overall and then as it started to pull back I was like I'm not gonna overstay my welcome I know these still have the risk of doing the head and shoulders pattern right dropping back down So, you know, we'll just see what ends up happening and it did end up pulling back a little bit later But the reason this pulled back in part was because there was another stock that came into focus So all of a sudden we noticed momentum was shifting now if we back out of this for one second I'll move this out of the way and put my slides back up here So step three is our technical analysis and the skills required to perform your technical analysis You've got understand candlestick shapes. You've got understand candlestick patterns You've got to understand technical indicators how to read support and resistance and how to visualize buy and sell signals Because here's the thing on these charts right here. You have buy and sell signals They're there if you don't know how to spot them yet It's just because you haven't learned the language of the financial markets, which is technical analysis So that's something that you got to learn Now step four is actually executing the trade and that's where I'm opening my window here my my broker window And I'm pressing the buy button pressing the cell button and or using my hot keys to buy and sell So in my hot keys all I have to do is press the keyboard Right, so shift one is to buy shift two is to buy shift three is to buy Controls these to sell control K control L are selling on the ask So just like that as quickly as you could type and I'm a pretty fast-typer in fact now not to be a little competitive But we have at warrior trading. I've got a team. I've got a team that worked for me and We decided to host a typing challenge now. I studied for the typing challenge and I won I was the number one fastest-typer of our team now Maybe I hired people that aren't fast-typers intentionally so I would win this challenge But disregard that possibility because that may or may not be true that is not proven What we do know is that I am the fastest-typer on the team I've got to get I'd have to grab a screenshot of where I'm coming in I'd say and I'm just gonna I'm gonna err on the side of caution here and say I'm probably coming in at around 3,000 words a minute probably around 3,000 now some of you guys are gonna say that sounds exaggerated and I would ignore that thought and just Just go with it. It's probably around 3,000. I'm a very fast-typer So but in all truth, I am able to move in now very quickly just with the keyboard and with the hot with the mouse Which you could see is in the middle of my keyboard. So I use a trackpad so number four step four is executing the trade and then the skills required is you need to know how to use trading software with hot keys You need to know how to read level two and do tape reading reading the buy-and-sell signals You've got to have pretty fast reaction speed, you know, hand-eye coordination and efficient order execution with your platform And then step five is to analyze the metrics and when I analyze the metrics That's what gives me feedback about what I'm doing that's working and what I'm doing that's not working and that requires an ability to understand Metrics how to highlight your weaknesses highlight your strengths and analyze where the majority of your profit is coming from now In my case, I am using this software here, which I'm not affiliated with so if you use it That's fine if you don't you could use whatever you want But as I said what I've noted about my own performance in the last 30 days that I have not been trading well past the open And so for that reason I've been stopping at about 10 a.m. And that's why I ended up missing, you know Choosing not to trade that big move yesterday today Interestingly, I traded right till about 10 30 and you want to know what happened? I actually peaked today at about a hundred and twenty five thousand dollars in profit and then I gave back twenty five thousand off the top That's a lot of money to give back But what I will say is that if there's ever a day to push it today would be that day and of course I could have walked away when I crossed my five thousand dollar daily goal today But I don't walk away when I hit my goal I continue to trade aggressively until I give back profit and so I didn't really give back any profit until I came up to about 120,000 dropped to about a hundred and fifteen got myself back to about a hundred and twenty five and then I took two bad trades and dropped to a hundred and seven and then down to ninety five thousand and then I came back up to about a hundred and five and then was back to 98,000 in my main account here So one of the things that I tell my kids a lot is Especially when we go skiing if you don't fall down, you're not pushing yourself hard enough falling down is no big deal There's nothing wrong with falling down you fall down you get back up and you keep going right? That's why we wear a helmet with snow. It's nice. You wear your snow pants. You're all nice and cushy So with trading if you don't give back a little profit to me It tells me that you didn't push all the way to the limit You've got to push to the limit give back a little and that's your place to stop now It's true that giving back thirty thousand dollars if that was just a single red day That would be a huge red day But in the context of today if there was ever a day to take that kind of risk Shoot, I could have been up a hundred and fifty thousand if those trades ended up working So it was risk versus reward the risk and the reward made sense so I took the trades Alright, so that's an overview and it's a fast overview of my strategy Let's talk about the pros and cons So the pros and cons of this strategy is that the pros are 1,000 plus percent moves. That's a huge pro trading that type of volatility is awesome Volatility equals opportunity and these are generally pretty liquid markets Which means you can move in and out with fairly big size But it's best and it is best for disciplined traders because the cons are that we do have hot and cold cycles So if for instance, you were only trading parabolic stocks like these Your challenge would be that your wins would be clustered together and then you would have long stretches of weeks Perhaps maybe even months where you didn't have any big winners and that would be pretty demoralizing So it's a great secondary strategy, but it's not going to be your day-to-day strategy You've got to have others as well Number two You could get caught buying too high right and that happened to me on a couple of trades today I got in too high I had to stop out which is fine But you got to recognize these can have hard quick reversals off the top Which means you must cut your losses quickly That's probably the biggest thing about this strategy is that you have to cut your losses quickly Because if you end up buying something like ATNF or drug and your trading momentum Which means you're buying high and selling higher, you know that works great And I mean I saw people posting that they were in this after hours at 48 and we're selling at 58 You know a great 10-point trade there But you know if you buy at 58 and sell it 59 you're okay But if you buy and then it starts going down you just hold Well, that's gonna be a problem. So you've got to be really disciplined about getting in and getting out So let's talk for a second about these trades I took today. So ATNF So we already talked about BDRX. That was the first stock I traded that gave me my cushion of $6,400 from there I jumped into STEC Now STEC what I liked about this one was it had made this big move yesterday Which was similar to the move that drug had but what I didn't love was that it had pulled back quite a bit So it dropped quite a bit, but then it did kind of rally up So as it started to squeeze up right here initially I pulled it up and I was thinking about trading it in my small account Because it's cheaper, but I said no, I don't know if I should do that So it ends up going higher here and on this pullback right there Starter size 20,000 shares. I just say you know what? 20,000 shares I'm in so I bought 20,000 shares of this starter size and as it squeezes up I added to 30,000 shares. So this was basically one trade from about 270 up to 280, 290 and taking profit as it goes higher boom 9,634 dollars. This is a classic first candle to make a new high This is a pattern that I'll be teaching you guys in Friday's class So I look for that pattern and it's one of my favorites It's one of the ones I have the most confidence in and in fact we will get BDRX and my trade on BDRX It's a fairly similar pattern. So BDRX that trade that I took was Right down here. That was the first pullback. Now the only difference on BDRX was that I bought off of support down here Whereas on STEC I was waiting. I bought a little higher, but that's okay Both are fine. It just depends on your comfort and how confident you are in the setup. So anyways, I bought this one a little bit higher But that's okay. So boom all of a sudden just like that I'm about $15,000 on the day And it's $7.30. All right, next trade coming up No trades at $7.45. No trades coming up to the top of the hour and then all of a sudden 8 a.m. ATNF hits my scanner. So ATNF hits my scanner and immediately I'm familiar with the stock. I've traded this stock before I know the name if we look at the chart You'll see of course It's red today because it opens super high and is pulled back But if we look back, this is a stock that has made moves on other days This is a day back here where it went from a dollar 62 up to about 480 and it traded on 30 million shares of volume So I remember it from that day there and then there was another lighter volume the day here right now today We've got 74 million shares of volume on the stock Alright, so it hits my scanner and the first thing I see it hits my scanner and immediately I'm like, okay, I know the stock and my workflow is step one Look at the ticker. Do I know the ticker? I know the ticker step to double check the float the float sub 1 million shares Okay, number three. What's the catalyst? So I checked the news window here, and I see that we've got a letter Let's see issues letter to stockholders providing updates. That was at 8 a.m. I didn't open the letter I didn't read it all I saw was that we have news at 8 a.m. Top of the hour and this thing is squeezing up And that it really was all I needed to know now from the volume perspective the volume was light to begin with but it Picked up pretty quickly. So my first entry on this was at Let's see. I bought this to do at $3 and 35 cents So that was getting in right about here $3.35 it goes up to a high of 350 it goes up to four It ends up hitting a high of four 27 or no, let's see what was the high here 442 so that was a small position. I took 2,500 shares at 3.35. This was not like STEC where I bought 20,000 on the first trade This is a smaller position on the first trade because the beginning of the move and I want to be careful We don't get that jackknife reversal like this So small position nice trade right there. It drops back down to 350 It comes back up it dips back down and then the spot that I'm watching is that four dollar level So it ends up pulling back a little bit more and then watch this When it gets back above 350 It was right around here all of a sudden you're gonna see the spike and that's where I got back in Must have been must have been right about there So we come back through 350 here and now I'm back in we break 350 We got we come up to four and all of a sudden this was incredible look at this move. This is just unbelievable boom in two minutes it went up over a hundred percent in Two minutes now, of course, we shouldn't be surprised after the big move on drug yesterday But so we we had this high which was like 450 and you know I just traded here for the break of 350 got a couple nice trades in this area And I don't remember how much I was up at that point. I obviously had the 15,000 from these trades I don't think I hadn't traded VS yet So I must have been up maybe 18,000 19,000 then I was up 20 22 25 and then all of a sudden this thing breaks This level it squeezes up here to 590 now the break of 450 going straight to 590 was awesome But look at how it has that topping tail and drops back down So I was like I don't know that might be a problem, but it holds five dollars It holds this level so then off of that level all of a sudden it's curling it goes through 550 and now we're back to new highs six six twenty five six fifty seven seven fifty eight and right up here at eight We had a big seller so I traded this this stretch right up here I booked my profit then it pulls back right here and the level that I'm watching is eight dollars now It comes back up to eight right here and I took this trade and I did catch a lot I think it was a loss right here. We had a double top. I think right? Yeah, it was a double top So I think it was right here that took a loss on it It drops back down, but then second attempt it comes up. It goes to 850 it drops down and now we hold over eight So this is really the important thing with Understanding support and resistance. So eight dollars was resistance. We had this ascending support line down here So we break over eight go to 850 we come back down, but we hold back over eight and now now it's I mean This was already game on that's a hundred percent in two minutes, but now it's like, okay, here we go So we rip up to 950 we pull back now. I'm just buying the breakouts. We break 950 we go to 10 10 50 We drop back down pull back for a second. We break through the new high. I'm adding for the break of 1050 We go up to 1150 pulls back then we break 1150 we go up to 12 we break 12 we go up to 13 we break 13 We go up to 14 we hit a high rate here of 15 dollars and 70 cents a share and then this was insane So so right here. This was really wild All of a sudden I don't even know what happened right here, but it Rips up and I just I punched the buy button So I got a little aggressive here I punched the buy button at 1550 and I all of a sudden I thought I was down a dollar a share I was like, oh my gosh, what have I done? and For some reason I don't know what happened inside my brain, but I thought I was down a dollar a share But actually I was up a dollar a share It was like instantaneously and then I was up two dollars a share and it goes all the way to 1850 and Then it goes to 1893 and so just in that move right there. I that's where I was crossing over $100,000 on the day. So it dips back down and at the open right here Right here. I bought 7500 shares at 14. I was looking for the red to green move right here Stopped out at 1220 for a $15,000 loss Boom two points 7500 shares 15,000 gone It comes back up and I got back in with 7500 shares and it does go to 15 So I made back some of the loss But not all of it not even close to all of it because I was scaling out on the move up it drops again It comes back up. I try to get back in it goes a little higher it drops back down goes a little higher drops back down So I end up being basically break even here and then as it starts to come back down here. I tried to do I can't remember where this was Somewhere in this area. I tried to do a dip. I don't know if it was here or here. I don't remember But anyways, I lost on that it went lower and then Yeah, so I and then anyway, so I ended up being up 96 about $96,000 on ATNF Maybe 98,000 maybe a hundred. I don't think so. I go around 98. Anyways gave back about You know 16,000 off the top most of it was on that drop and then I gave back the rest a little bit later So push my luck on ATNF a little bit, but look again I mean I took a risk I traded it and you can see like where did I lose? You know here? Here like here and maybe it was here So, you know, I guess this was the end of the front side of the move right there and I over traded the backside a little bit and It's okay to give back a little profit Fortunately, I didn't give back too much in percentages anyways, so so then that was ATNF Then we had VS So VS this one I actually lost 8,000 on it on my second trade so VS This one was super super annoying because Um, I saw it right here and I was like oh boy here we go. This looks a lot like drug from yesterday Right, that's our pre-market high 650. We're right here So I actually bought 15,000 shares for the breakthroughs 450 and what happens? I got in right here. It goes to 451 and then it flushes down boom lost 8,000 bucks Unbelievable Then it rips right back up here to 990 So I got back in 464.70. I make a little bit coming back up. Now. I'm down 5,000 on it I get in here. It rips up here. It drops down another jackknife and it then rallies up here It halts up on resumption. I bought at 550. It flushes to 480. I stopped out Then it rips back up. I'm back in And you know, this thing ends up going all the way to $9 and I only made 2,379 bucks on it. It was this was really tricky for me. I just I don't know. I just was not doing well on it I just got stopped out several times and then I was in the red and I was Kind of dealing with being above and below 100,000 in my big account and I was Trying to do better and anyways now some of you will say Ross How big is this big account that you speak of? You know, this is a million dollar account five million dollar account I mean, how much 100,000 you're up to 100,000 on the day. How much is that really? So so let's go ahead and check So if I go to um account summary, so let's see um, so my account balance this morning is Um, and I don't usually keep this window up, but I'll just put it up right here for you So I came in this morning with um, $230,000 in buying power So $230,000 is my is my balance in the account. This is a retirement account. I have no leverage So my account is up like 40 today Tomorrow, I'll be at 330 right 325 whatever 328 So this is a it's not a tiny account by any means, but the account's up 40 percent in one day Uh, it's a it's a really solid day and I never maxed my buying power I did not use all of my buying power 20,000 shares of 30,000 shares of s tech At $4 a share. It's like 150 grand So it's a big position, but it's not using all my buying power Um, you know at at nf again even even 10,000 shares of that at $15 would only be would still be 150 grand And I don't think I took that kind of size Although maybe I did like I can't quite recall, but in any case um Overall I used I used a good amount of buying power today, but I didn't max it out Um, so I wasn't short on money, which means I could actually probably take out, you know the hundred thousand dollars that I made today Because I didn't really need that buying I don't need the extra hundred thousand dollars in buying power Now I could keep it in and if we continue to see this type of hot momentum, I could just keep increasing my share size And maybe I should maybe I should just do that for you know, well, we're on day two of a hot cycle So maybe I should at least until things cool off Really try to extract as much profit as I can from this hot cycle Knowing that the way my equity curve always looks Is I'll have these stretches like this a small loss kind of goes sideways and then all of a sudden we pull away And then you know, I'll have a couple losses draw down go sideways And then we pull away again. So hot streak hot streak. That's what my P&L usually looks like So if we look at the last 90 days, of course It's not going to include today's profit because I haven't imported it yet But the last 90 days Um, well, I don't know. I guess the last 90 days haven't been so bad Let's see. Let me pull up my trader view report here. Did I already put it in the background? No, maybe not Oh, here it is. So we'll just look at the last 90 days If I back that out Go to overview And then we'll just do recent So 30 days 60 days 90 days So you could see here This was kind of like a slow stretch and then it started pulls away and then it's slow pulls away Then it's kind of slow pulls away a little bit and then it's kind of like a little slower So then all of a sudden you're going to boom have a day like that, which is going to be today So now What if I have two back-to-back days like that, right? We go back to the calendar from july And in july, I made $232,000 in the whole month But look at this week this one week. I made a hundred and twenty three grand $45,000 the next day I did another 42 Then thursday was 7,000 and friday was 22,000 So this was a hot cycle right here. It was super hot. I mean the whole month was strong But this was super super hot within that month So all of a sudden and in august by the way, I did 171,000 which was really solid That was my second best month of the year And my third best month of the year right now is coming in as Let's see February was 131. I was at 59 So now this is going to be my second best month of the year right here So i'm at 159 on the month now And we still have Let's see how many trading days do we have left? Holy cow look at that calendar I didn't even realize that we have that many days left. Let's look at the calendar So We're only a little more than halfway through the month We've still got Basically two full weeks left right thursday friday. I mean we've got a lot of time left in the month So This is great. I'm positioned really well here now look Tomorrow i'm going to come in like just i'm not going to try to carry This cushion from today and take 20,000 shares on my first trade of the day tomorrow tomorrow The plan is as always Starting with that first base hit less than 5,000 shares trying to make a thousand bucks Got myself in the green on the day because again if we look at my P&L on the day How much did I ever risk going red? I started zero and the risk on that first trade was 1,200 1.2k Now if I had taken two losses like that in a row three losses like that in a row, you know, whatever I could have been down my max loss is 5,000 So that's my max loss on a day 5,000 But realistically today I was risking going maybe down you know 1,500 2,000 And all of a sudden, you know made my way up here to 125,000 before giving back a little bit off the top In a 20 percent making back a little bit making losing it and finishing right about here All right, so 104,000 between the two accounts I guess that's where I'm at and I go you know between the two accounts I guess I peaked at 130 but anyways, so I think that's awesome To have not been risking going down more than 5,000 on the day max loss That's a great risk to reward but even on that first trade the risk for reward was really solid So this is a strategy that I've been trading for a long time now the thing that I'll say and I commented on the yesterday We saw a number of short sellers yesterday posting huge six figure losses 100,000 red days 200,000 red days 300 400,000 red days A day where you give back a third of your year half of your year your whole year in one trade Now as bad as that is it can get a whole lot worse We saw ZJYL this is a stock by the way back November of last year And I I'm gonna say it again because I want you guys to recognize the risk of this Um, so let me pull up the chart on ZJYL now. I had a question on ZJYL Someone said Ross I don't think that ZJYL ever hit 500 dollars a share Um, so it did However, they did a they did a stock split which is kind of crazy So this was the chart here on um ZJYL So on this one they did a stock split And so if we looked at the chart on ZJYL right now Oops ZJYL it shows sorry ZJYL I look now I said I was the fastest typeer. I didn't say I was the most accurate And that was actually we had a little bit of a debate about that I thought we were gonna have to take it to you know Some kind of arbitrator to decide the actual winner of the competition because someone else was more accurate But was a slower typing speed and I said this was a competition to see who was fastest Let's get real and if you think you know if you want to argue with me then You know, that's gonna be a major problem. So Anyways, so let's see uh Adal so there we go. So ZJYL I don't think I'm gonna go be able to be able to go back intraday all the way to I can't just can't load that that many days. So ZJYL Shows back here in February. They did a 20 to 1 stock split so That means um If they this was not a reverse split. This was a regular split. So see here where it says it went up to $25 We actually have to multiply that by By 20 so 20 times 20 so it's so actually it's it's a lot higher So that was the day it happened and this was what the chart looked like on that day Um, it halted down a couple of times right here and it opened uh halted up once at about 13 Opened halted a second time at 25 that was $25 at a halted up and then it opened at $500 a share That's the chart right there ZJYL 1.3 million share float halted at 500 And so a 10,000 share position could have produced a 4.8 million dollar loss And this is the thing, you know It's just the reality that I've seen with short sellers that they typically maintain High accuracy shorting everything that goes up and adding adding adding and in a sense Here's the thing that's really interesting That that really does work Very well If you have enough money in your account because if you keep adding Eventually eventually you could add enough to bring your cost base is high enough that it could come back down So think imagine like Elon Musk shorting GameStop Would he have had to cover GameStop for a loss at 500 or could he have kept adding? He could have kept adding he had enough money The only reason the hedge fund stopped out was because they hit their max loss Which was $6 billion But Elon Musk got like 300 billion. He could keep adding he could hold he wouldn't have been getting squeezed Right So you can keep adding keep adding keep adding so this is the this is the strategy similar with With blackjack with gambling where you you risk you risk $50 on the first hand You lose then the second hand you risk a hundred you win you make back what you what you lost so in blackjack the martingale strategy is Basically every time you start with risking 25 and then you risk 50 then you risk a hundred then you risk 200 Then you risk 400 then you risk 800 then you risk 1600 and i've been to i've been to the casino I've done this and I made money now The only problem is you've got to make sure the blackjack table that you play on has a high enough limit So you can do third three thousand dollars on one hand because otherwise if you have the misfortune of having one two three four five six seven eight losses in a row Which can happen then boom you can't make back your loss So now you got to go you keep going now you got to go 6400 now you've got to go 12,800 now you've got to go to 25,000 Right i'm rounding up now now you've got to go to 50,000 now you've got to go to 100,000 But then when you finally win on the 100,000 you make back everything you lost And then you keep going you got to go now to 200,000 And so that's essentially what the strategy is when you're shorting something that's going higher You keep adding and then you double and then you double and then you double And then on that final reversal when it finally comes back down you cover And you're profitable boom Unless Unless You cannot afford to keep adding and you hit your max loss in which case You've got this nice track record of being profitable until that final trade where you lost it all And then you start over And then it happens again because it's bound to happen statistically it will keep happening That's the greatest flaw with that strategy now when it comes to recommended reading thinking and bets by anti-duke professional poker player Very interesting book that I highly recommend number two the happiness advantage by shawn acor great book The power of knowing when to walk away quit also by anti-duke definitely check that out Trade mindfully by gary day and and bestseller how to day trade the plain truth by yours truly ross camera You guys will get a copy when you watch the free intro to day trading course So make sure you check out that link in the description and pin to the top of the comments And I'll remind you guys as always trading is risky my results aren't typical so manage your risk take it slow And I'll see you guys back here for my next upload real soon