# 44. My Profits SOARED After Learning This Trading Hack
# id=f2B1xKe9oVU (whisper base.en)

In today's episode, I'm going to share with you what I think is one of the big secrets to long-term success as a trader. You may know that most beginner traders lose money. I don't think that's a secret. In all my years of trading, I'm kind of in a unique position here because I put out all this content here on YouTube so I get to read your comments and really see the whole spectrum of traders. I see a lot of traders who will comment on videos like this and it's very clear that they have no strategy. They have no idea what they're doing, they're total beginners. And then you have traders who've been doing it for a while, they understand technical analysis, they know how to read level two, they know how to get in and out of stocks, they know how to make money, but they lose more than they make. And a lot of times it comes down to lack of discipline. And then there are traders who just chronically over trade. And unfortunately, a lot of beginners fall into that pattern. So what I'm going to share with you is a little secret that a lot of beginner traders don't understand. The experience traders don't understand this either. And the secret is that in trading less is more. So let me walk you through the steps that I would take to rein my trading back in to focus on my highest probability setups, thereby increasing my accuracy, increasing my profit loss ratio and actually increasing my total profit all while trading less. Which gives you back more time in your day. I'm sure for all of you out there who've been trading for a while, you would love it if you could make more money trading with less time, right? Now I'm not saying that this is going to work right away, you're not going to watch this video and tomorrow, boom, you're going to be changed, but I hope for you, this is going to be a step in the right direction because what I'm going to give you are some skills that you can implement in your trading today. So let's take a step back and talk about why so many traders struggle with chronic overtrading. I think it kind of goes back to the fact that for most beginners, we're taught to learn by getting our hands in dirty, by getting hands on and just taking as many trades as possible. That's what was great for me. And I think that there's some real value in that because to become really good at trading, you need experience and you just can't really, there's no substitute for gaining experience other than just being right here and actually taking the trades. So if you were someone who came into the market and let's just say as a beginner, you only took one trade a day, that's only one experience per day. There's about 250 trading days in the year. So you're getting 250 individual trade experiences each year. Well compare that to someone who comes in and takes 40, 50 or even 100 trades a day. They're getting exponentially more experience than you are and they're going to learn a lot from each one of those trades. They're going to get a better sense of, oh, it's interesting. You know, when I see this certain bid on the level two, I see like a 80,000 share buyer, all of a sudden the stock tends to pop up 10, 15 cents. You start to learn when I see this, this happens because a lot of trading and success in trading comes down to pattern recognition. Ultimately, the traders who can predict the future the best will make the most money. And we're not trying to predict days, weeks or months into the future, really as active day traders, we're just trying to predict, I don't know, maybe the next 15 minutes, maybe the next five minutes. If you can predict what a stock is going to do, five minutes from now, even three minutes from now, you could make a lot of money as a trader. So how do we predict what a stock is going to do? Ultimately, it's through pattern recognition. So let's jump onto the whiteboard. Let's say for instance, you see this very familiar pattern. You see this big green candle and let's say it started with a catalyst right here at eight a.m. Eastern, Eastern Standard Time, which would be pre-market with breaking news. All right, so this stock has breaking news that has just come out at eight a.m. Let's just say it's a FDA approval. All right, so they got an FDA approval, which means this is a biotech stock. We know biotech and pharmaceutical stocks can be particularly volatile. So it squeezes up, it pushes even higher, and then we see a moment of pullback. Now, what I know, and what many of you who are tuning in also know, is that the first pullback on a strong stock that has breaking news usually gets bought up, which means it moves higher. And so as an active trader, when we see this pattern forming, right, we only see the beginning of it. We see sort of the first candle, the second candle, this candle, we're starting to predict what's going to happen next, right? We don't know if this is going to happen to my drop, but we see this and we've seen this pattern enough times that we're starting to create that kind of pattern recognition and that recollection that, okay, what's probably going to happen here is the first candle makes a new high and it pushes higher. So as a beginner, you want to gain a lot of experience. And the best way to do that is to trade a ton. Obviously, encourage all of our members that wore your trading who have access to our simulator, just to trade as much as possible. There's nothing wrong with that. If you want to start at 4 a.m. and you want to trade until 8 p.m., that's fine. Now, it's a long day, but you will gain a lot of experience. Okay. At what point do you rein it in? Because you may know that I don't start trading at 4 a.m. and trade all the way to 8 p.m. And some people would say, Ross, I don't understand why. Wouldn't you just make more money if you traded longer hours? Now, when I think about profitability, I break it down into a few components. So we're going to start here. I'm going to kind of build out this map of profitability. This is your roadmap to being green, roadmap to profit. All right. So we'll call it that. So to me, it starts with accuracy. The first and most important thing for a successful trader is to have high accuracy. And most beginner traders, especially when you're in the phase of trading in a simulator, you don't have high accuracy. You're taking a ton of trades, which is great. You're trading just for the sake of trading and gaining experience, studying the level two and starting to learn, you know, when this happens, that happens to everything else. So during that phase, you may only have 30% accuracy, 40% accuracy. And that's fine. Because right now it's not about making a lot of money. It's about gaining experience and just sort of like just gaining as much experience as you can. It's the fire hose, just absorb as much as you can and keep gaining all of that experience so the more you trade, the better. But then you're going to get to a point where you say, I want to test myself. I want to see if I started trading with real money, how would I do? And so what's the first thing that you're going to do if you're going to make that kind of transformation step? You're going to reduce the amount that you're trading, right? You're not going to trade for 12 hours a day. You're going to say, well, let me slow down and you may even set up two simulator accounts. One is to continue trading 1,000 times a day to gain experience. And the other is to test yourself like these are the trades I would actually take with real money and let's see if I could be a profitable trader. And so you're going to set a certain quality standard for all of those trades you're going to take, right? You're not going to trade low quality setups. You're not going to trade something that has a high risk of flushing and you're going to get, you know, hopefully a better sense of the C and D quality setups that you should avoid. So when you're trading with this sort of pretend real money account, you're dialed in. So your first goal is to achieve high accuracy. If you can achieve high accuracy, you're going to have more winners than losers, naturally. And what we hope is that this translates to a positive profit to loss ratio, where your average winners are bigger than your average losers. When you have a positive profit to loss ratio, you then have what we would call consistency. So I'm just going to draw a picture of a calendar here. Consistency with high accuracy high profit loss ratio is when most of the days out of the month are going to be green days. So just be like green, green, green, green, green, green, green, green, green. And then okay, maybe you have one red day here and one red day here. But for the most part, you're trading nicely in the green. Now you know what that consistency creates? That consistency creates self-confidence. Now self-confidence is a very sort of little respected component to success in trading. A lot of people don't think that this really, they wouldn't consider this sort of part of the equation. But confidence in yourself is really important. When you only get confidence as a trader, when you have a track record of consistency, if you're a brand new trader and you have zero track record of consistency, any confidence that you have would be ignorant, it would just be blissfully ignorant because there's no reason for you to be confident, right? You hopefully would not be. You would be naturally a little bit cautious because you've got zero experience, you don't know what you're doing. Now, unfortunately, beginners' luck for some traders can give them a false sense of confidence and that can be really dangerous, which is why regardless of, you know, how much money you have, I always think it's a good idea to practice in a simulator for a period of time and improve that the strategy that you're trading is more than just beginners' luck, that there's a process and a system that you could trade every single day that's repeatable and that you could give to someone else and that they could trade it too, right? There's more than just luck behind it. So when you start to develop a track record, that creates self-confidence. Now self-confidence, how's that feed into accuracy? To be honest, self-confidence doesn't really feed into accuracy all that much, but what it does factor into is the quantity of trades. So the next one here, and I'll move accuracy over just a little bit, is quantity of trades. So as a beginner, you may only be taking five trades, let's just say five trades a day. But as you gain more self-confidence in your system and your strategy, you'll start increasing maybe to 10 to 15 to 20 to 25, et cetera. And so naturally, if everything else is the same, you increase the quantity of trades, you're going to increase the profit. But there's another thing that happens in here. You increase your share size. So let's see, this is, so that's trade, I'll just say, trade quantity, TQ, and this is TS, trade size. And then we'll go down here to, we'll move accuracy down here. So we're going to do sort of a full circle. So these are the three sort of components that will fuel your accuracy, profit loss ratio, and consistency going up. So when you have self-confidence, you increase the total number of trades you take, you increase your share size, maybe initially you were trading with 100 shares, then you go to 1000, then you go to 2000, then you go to 4000, you go to 8000, right? You go to 16,000, and all of a sudden, your consistency is higher, your profit loss ratio is higher. Accuracy is, as long as this actually stays the same, and this stays the same, and this remains consistent, right, consistently green, then your self-confidence, trade quantity, and trade size will increase total profitability. So this can all put you on a positive feedback loop, but not so fast. I've seen the exact opposite happen, where traders go on a negative feedback loop and start the downward spiral. Now, you may be familiar with this, I'm familiar with it because I've had many downward spirals in my career. I'm lucky that I got through them, and really the only reason that I got through them is because I started trading early enough in life before I was married, before I had kids, and I was at a place where I could afford these losses, and I could recover from them. Now today, if I started today, it wouldn't be nearly as easy. So those of you guys who are starting early are certainly at an advantage, but the thing you can do, of course, regardless is to practice and start in a simulator. So the problem that some traders fall into is a negative feedback loop, where low accuracy introduces a lot of losers, because if you're only right 50% of time, half your trades are losses. So with all of those losses invariably, you'll catch some bigger losses. So then you have a bad profit loss ratio. You've got a bad calendar, where you've got a lot of red. You've got low confidence, so you reduce the number of trades you're taking. You reduce your share size, but if your accuracy doesn't improve, you're just going to continue to spiral downward. And unfortunately, what some people do is, in spite of low confidence, they actually increase trade quantity and increase share size. And the reason they do this is because now that they've dug themselves a whole, they feel the only way to get out is to increase the number of trades I'm taking and to increase my share size. And so then that goes to an actual fast accelerating downward spiral, where things are getting, the losses are getting bigger and bigger and bigger. So what I want to introduce to you is this concept of less being more. And I'm going to show you from my own metrics. This is a very interesting discovery that I just made here in the last week. So I've been, this last, well, the last six months have been very interesting. It's been an interesting market. Those of you guys who have been tuning in for a while, of course, you get to watch me trade every single day if you're a member of warrior trading. I've had this kind of interesting experience where last year for me was a very slow year. It was actually a low point for me where I finished the year up $389,000. And I know that a lot of you guys are going to say, you can't call that a slow year. It's a great year. But it is a slow year because if we looked at 2022, you would see that in 2022, I was up closer to 800,000. So let's look at 2022. So that was actually a million dollars. So 2022 was a million dollars and that was in gross profit. So 1 million in 2022 and then 2023 came in at 389,000. That was down 60% year over year, right? So that for me was a low point to have a year where I made that much less. Was it still a green year? Yeah, still made money. Six figures can't complain. Now we look at 2024 and 2024 back on track here sitting currently at 797,000 with more than 90 days till it go in the rest of the year. But what's interesting here about this year is that if we look at the overview and we look at my calendar, I had a relatively slow beginning of the year, January, February, March, April, May, and then in June, I implemented a change in my trading and that change led to a 47-day hot streak that lasted from July through August and into September. And even through September, there's only two red days. Now, if we look at August or we look at July, you'll see in July, I locked up $232,000 in one month, more than half of what I made in all of last year I made in one month. And then if we add the $170,000 that I made in August through the month of July and August in two months, I made more than I made all of 2023. The market was hot. Now the strategy that I implemented was based on trying to understand is today going to be a green day or a red day. Let's tie this back to accuracy because accuracy is such an important point right here. So what I ended up doing in June after a particularly bad red day was I ran this report of wind days versus lost days. And what I realized was that on my losing days, this is really embarrassing, but I put it all out there so you guys can see it, but on my losing days, my accuracy is 46% I should be ashamed of myself. My accuracy is 46% on losing days, whereas on winning days, my accuracy is 66%. Now, I suppose it makes sense that on red days, I'm going to have lower accuracy, but this is 50% lower. This is substantially lower, well, not quite, but it's substantially lower, right? So I thought to myself, how could I identify that today is going to be a red day as early as possible? So instead of going down $5,000, which is my max loss, 5,000, maybe I could stop when I'm down only 2,500. Is there a way I could identify it's going to be a red day sooner? And what I noticed about my trading, and this is again, pattern recognition, what I noticed is that what I tend to do on days as I go red, let's come back on to the whiteboard. On days that I go red, the first trade, you know what it is, the first trade is a loser. And so I immediately go red. My second trade is usually another loser, third trade, usually another loser. And as I'm losing, do you know what I'm doing? I'm doing exactly what I said here as part of the downward spiral. I'm increasing share size. So I'm taking bigger position. So quantity of shares goes up right here, going up even more. And now once I go red, so my P&L looks like this, I start the day and I go down, down, down. But actually, it's a little bit different. I would actually say it looks more like this. First trade down, second trade with bigger size, down more, third trade with even bigger size down even more. So the losses are getting bigger with each trade because I'm taking larger share size. So when I'm taking larger share size, I'm going down further and further. And then when I get down to this point, I'm at a place where I'm essentially grasping at straws. I'm willing to trade anything that's moving. And then, you know, what you really end up having to do is go on to another sort of, I'll start from the top. So first loss, second loss, third loss, fourth loss. And all of a sudden, just like that, I'm down $5,000 or more. And so I realize on these days, what's happening is I'm having a mini spiral, right? Now it's all contained within one day, which is good, it could be worse. But sometimes this can actually lead to multiple days of downward momentum, where the next day I come in, you know, let's just say the day ended right here. So the next day I come in and what happens first trade, once again, deep in the red. And then second trade deep in the red, and you just have to get more whiteboard to keep going red. So you just go on to this multi-day downward spiral. And I said, well, what if I could go back to right here at the beginning? Where could I intervene and do something different to prevent me from having these spiral days? And I realized that on these days, occasionally, occasionally these days will actually start with a green trade. Sometimes these days will start with a green trade, but then very quickly, I go boom right into the red. And so I realized that most of these days, the majority of these days, I never went, if I went green, I was never green by more than $1,000. And I thought about that. And I thought, well, geez, I wonder, what if I did something a little different? What if I said to myself, I'm going to start each day, of course, at zero right here. Oops, zero. I'm going to start each day at $0, and I am not going to increase my share size until I'm up $1,000. So I came up with this system where I would trade with a max position of 5,000 shares, which for me is about one quarter of full size, which is around 20,000 shares. So starting with a quarter of full size position, I said, I'm going to do 5,000 shares max size, and my first goal is to make 20 cents a share. So that means if I get in right here and my first trades a 20 cent winner, I'm going to be up $1,000. So $1,000 in the green. And then from there, I'll take the cap off. If my second trades a winner, then boom, next thing you know, I'm making my way up to the $5,000 daily goal. But here's the thing, if I'm just sorry, make that a $5,000, $5,000 daily goal. But if that first trade is a loss, then with smaller share size, I'm down only $1,000 minus $1,000, which is a very small red day for me. And I do not increase size until I'm up over 1,000. So then the second trade, if I lose on the second one, I'm down 2,000, oops, 2,000, sorry. So then I'm down $2,000 on the second trade. And if I lose on the third, I'm down $3,000, all right, $3,000 in the red. And at that point, you know what I say, three strikes, you're out. So not that I'm a big baseball player, because you guys probably didn't know that. I'm not a professional baseball player, I just should say that for full disclosure. I'm not even, I don't watch sports a whole lot. But anyways, I spent too much time sitting in front of the computer, watching the market. But nonetheless, I figure if I have three strikes, I'm out. So if I start the day with three losers in a row, that tells me that clearly my accuracy is not on. And if I look back at these big red days, a lot of these big red days started with three, four, five losing trades in a row, back to back losers, except the difference is that I continue to increase my share size. And then on those days, once I was down $5,000 or $8,000 or $10,000, I got emotionally activated. I got frustrated, angry, disappointed. And what did I do? I took it out of my trading. I started increasing the quantity of trades, because I realized, well, I'm sitting here waiting for eight quality setups, and I'm not seeing any. And I want to make back that $10,000 that I'm red right now, because I'm red $10,000, I sure feel like a loser. So if I could make $10,000 between now and the end of the day, I won't feel like a loser anymore. I won't have to go to bed feeling like an idiot. So then, if there's no A quality setups for the rest of the day, I guess I'm going to have to trade B quality setups. I guess I'm going to have to trade C quality setups, but you know what happens when you do that? If at an A quality setup, I'm trading, if I'm really disciplined in trading only A quality setups, maybe I'm at 75, maybe 80% accuracy. If I trade A and B setups mixed together, I'm probably at about 70%, which in a hot market is okay. So when I start trading CD F quality setups, not that I really grade them at that level, but I just start trading really garbage. What happens to my accuracy? Drops. 46%. That's what we see. We see it in the metrics right here. So what I realized was that I need to find a way to slow myself down on the days that have the highest probability of being a red day. And those are of course days where I start in the red. Now there are some exceptions. There were some days after I implemented this new strategy where I went up, you know, 5,000 or even 10,000, and then one trade, I went all the way back to flat. You know, I had a fluke loss and whatever. That was it. But that didn't happen very often. And in fact, the fact that I had 47 green days in a row is evidence of that. So then after we came off this really hot summer of trading, June, July, August, I was like, all right, September is going to be on fire. I'm so excited for the month of September. I'm going to be aggressive. I'm going to just continue this momentum. We'll see if I can cross over a million dollars on the year right here right now in September. So I came into September swinging hot. Now look, I think I had some basis for being that aggressive in September, but I want to show you what happened in the first three weeks. So in the first three weeks of September, I ended up really spinning my wheels and actually we're going to look at the overview here. So what ended up happening for these first three weeks is I had my first two red days that I'd had since June, and neither of them were small red days, 11,800 and 7,500. And you can see how many trades I was taking, 51 trades, 60 trades, 59 trades, 105 trades. In fact, if we look at the details here and we're going to analyze this and by analyzing it, what you're going to get are some actionable steps you can implement in your own trading today based on my experiences. So if we look at the total number of trades, this is over the course of three weeks. How many trades do we have? 628 trades. All right. So we got 628 trades and we're going to break this down on a per week basis. So we're going to call this the, this is going to be a spiral period. So I was trading 200 trades per week approximately. And what was my, my total profit was $44,000. So look, I mean, I can't complain, it's not like I was losing money, but I did have some big losses in there. My average winners were $388. Okay. So average winner here, we're going to go on to the whiteboard, $388 average plus winner. And then the average losers were minus 391 average loser. All right. And the accuracy was a mere 58%. Not great. Now the total volume traded, let's look at this. So through this period, I was trading an average of 400, oops, 438,000 shares per day. So 438,000 shares per day. So at the rate of, let's see, 200 trades per week. So we're doing about 40 trades a day. So trading about a little over 10,000 shares, 10k shares per trade. Okay. So these are metrics right here for a period that I self-identified as being poor performance. I was, and my accuracy is what really highlights it, accuracy and poor profit loss ratio. Now just for the sake of comparison, let's look at this stretch from June, the end of June through August, just so you can kind of compare what a better, what, what my metrics look like when I'm trading a little bit better. All right. So from June 17 through August 31st here, I did $418,000, which was phenomenal. That's excellent right there. And I averaged about 66% accuracy, 67%. That's pretty good profit loss ratio, $539 average winner, $285 average loser. So let's actually write this down. All right. So the, this is going to be June through August. So I was taking an average of, well, let's see. So that was 1500, I had a total of 1500 trades, but how many weeks was this? Maybe we should do just July, we'll do just July and August. That way it's two months. It's just easier to do the math. All right. So we'll just do July and August. All right. So we'll cut off a couple of days there. All right. So anyways, doesn't change much here. So $404,000. So I took, let's see, 1400 trades. So I was taking 700 trades a month. So about approximately 175 trades per week. All right. Average winners, $560 average losers, $291. So this is the loser. This is the winner. Only 67% average daily volume, 377,000 shares, which means I was taking a few less trades. So instead of 40 trades is more like 35. So I was still averaging about 10,000 shares per trade. So 10,000 shares per trade right here. But what I would say is that during this period here, I increased the number of trades, but I significantly decreased accuracy and my profit loss ratio went down as well because the average losers went down and the average winners were smaller. So now let's compare that with the next little stretch. So now we're going to look at September final week. All right. So the final week of September, oh, and the total profit there was, let's see. So for this, we were at $44,000, $44,000, that was for a three week period. This was $408,000, which was really super, super solid. Okay. So now let's look, which was averaging 15. So let's do it in weekly. So it's averaging here, $15K per week. And this was averaging 50K per week, wow, $50,000 per week. Okay. So 50K per week. All right. So now let's compare that with the last week of September. So for the last week of September, we're going to go from here to here last full trading week. And so what I ended up doing is I told myself, and this is what, this is what I find so interesting. So after finishing the first three weeks of September, like this, and then I had a red day on Thursday and another red day on Friday towards the end of the third week. So after those two red days in a row, I was frustrated. I was like, you know what, gosh darn it, this is so irritating. Why can't I get, you know, my head on straight here, I'm over trading. I feel like I'm just, I'm spiraling. What is going on? I'm increasing my quantity. My accuracy is garbage. I'm just, I feel like I'm flailing, you know, this isn't a good feeling. I don't feel like I'm really dialed in. You know, when you want it, when you're trading, you want to become cool, collective, right? That's not how I was feeling. I felt kind of like, you know, when you see a football team, for instance, again, not super in a sport, but you know, when you see a football team, end of the, let's just say like end of the second half, they've had a great, they were in the lead and then all of a sudden things fall apart, right? And then desperation starts to kick and then they get sloppy, then they throw an interception and then all of a sudden it's like, whoa, what's happening? That's kind of how I felt like I was trading, just grasping at straws, getting sloppy, just not dialed in. So I said, all right, we're near the end of the month. I had a, I had big goals for the month of August or for the month of September. It's not going to happen. So forget about that. That's out. At this point, let's just survive the rest of the month without doing something stupid. So I said, you know what, I think you need to put yourself into trader rehab. For me is when I put very tight restrictions on my account to go back to essentially raining myself into focus on the basics, focus on the setups and the stocks that I typically will have the highest performance in, because that's kind of like my cure. Anytime I end up going off track and having a big loss, it's always like, let's go back to basics, go back to the fundamentals. And that is always sort of my path through, you know, a big drawdown. So I said, all right. So for Monday morning, what are you going to do? You're going to come in and I'm going to cap myself to 5,000 shares, reducing share size for the whole day, just trying to close the day green after a couple of red days. I said, and you're only going to trade a quality setups. I knew and acknowledged that I had been trading some lower quality setups because I've been getting a little desperate. And I think part of the problem was sometimes I was starting the day on like a B or C quality setup and I immediately went into the red and then I'm spending the rest of the morning trying to dig myself out of the hole. And if I had just been patient and waited for a good quality setup, I could have started so much better. It would have been better to start later, but to start off on the right foot than to get out early, but fumble out of the starting gate. So what I ended up doing was saying I'm going to implement some guardrails for the month. And for those of you guys who have read my book, how did they trade the plain truth? In this book, I break down a number of different guardrails that I implement in my trading. Let's see. That's guard rule number five, but oh, I have it tagged here in the back. So in the back, there's a list of all the guardrails here. If you guys haven't checked out my book, you're welcome to grab a copy on Amazon is 20 bucks. If you want to download a free copy of my book and you're welcome to, I'll put a link, I'll pin it to the top of the comments as it'll be linked in the description where you can watch a free class and at the end of that free class, I give everyone a copy of my book. It's a digital copy so you can download it because still read it. I encourage you guys to do that. And by the way, for those of you guys watching for this episode, I will also put a link just above that link for a two week trial at Warrior Trading. So if you want to do a two week trial and actually watch over my shoulder while I'm trading for two weeks, then by all means, check it out and see what it's like. But a good starting point is to check out the free class and get a copy of the book. So I talk about guardrails. And so what I decided to do for the last week of September was I implemented some guardrails. I said 5,000 share max share size, T.S., trade share size, until green. So until green. And then I said A plus quality only. And this refers both to stock type and to setup. Now in the book, I actually talk about stock selection and the type of stocks that are the right type of stocks to trade. So chapter 10, finding the right stocks to trade. And we do an introduction to candle sticks, but I don't get into the individual setups in the book, but I do cover those in the class so you guys can check that out. So by doing this, I figured I had a high likelihood that I would have a chance at recovering and finishing the month with a couple of green days. But I assumed I wouldn't make that much money. And the reason I assumed I wouldn't make that much money was because I was restricting the number of trades I was going to take. I was restricting the amount of share size I was going to take at least for the first day. And so I thought I'm probably not going to do that well. So now let's talk about how I actually performed. And this is going to be based on adding those restrictions. So less is more. So the total number of trades, let's do that first, I took 76 trades per week. So I reduced the number of trades by 70%, right? Significantly reducing the number of trades I was taking. My accuracy went up to 81.6%. That is awesome. So I took 76 trades, but they were all a quality trades and I won on 81% of them. My average winners were $545. Now see, here's the thing that's also interesting. If you know, that's more in line with the average winners from June and August, $560, $545. What was happening during this period? Well, some of those B and C quality setups I was winning on, but the losses were the winners were small. They just weren't big winners because they weren't great setups. They weren't A quality stocks. But the losers, well, I took more trades and B quality C quality setups produced bigger losers. So my average losers increased by 50% from about 300 to about 400. Well, 20, 30%, whatever, doesn't matter. So my average losers here were $167. In fact, they were lower than any period during this hot streak. Wow, that's really solid. Now what about the total number of trades? And what's the total profit? Right? It probably didn't make that much because I didn't get to take very many trades. So the total number of shares traded was 187,000 shares per day. So about 50% of what I was trading during the hot market and less than half of what I was trading during the spiral period. But my average, well, 76 trades a day, I was actually averaging about 12,000 shares per trade. So I was actually taking larger size. Now on the first day, I did restrict myself to 5,000 shares, but then as soon as I had a green day, I sized up. So for the rest of the week, I was trading with 12,000 share positions. And the total profit here was $31,000 for the week. So in fact, I was more profitable during this stretch between June and August. And I think that that was the result of during this period of time, the market was hotter and I was able to take almost three times as many A quality setups. And maybe there were some B quality setups in here too. It was mostly A and B. So during this stretch, trading only A, I trade with higher accuracy and a better profit loss ratio, but my total profit was a bit limited. So now here's what I present to you. I would present to you, if you're a trader who has been struggling for some time, maybe you're trading with real money, as always, practice these techniques I'm going to share with you in a simulator, I would encourage you and see if you can test yourself to trade for the next week, just A quality setups and A quality stocks. Now if you don't know what is A quality for you, you've got to pull your metrics. You've got to look at your metrics. You can import them and this software, I don't have any affiliate relationship with. So if you use this, that's fine. If you use something else, that's fine too. I really don't care. But you can import your trades. So I import my trades. You could use thinkorswim. I mean, these are all the different brokers you can import to or from and you import your trades and then you analyze your data and you look at, okay, well, what time of day do I make money? What day of the week do I make money? Now, what you can see here is I make money predominantly in the morning. And of course, I know that about my trading, but during the first three weeks of September, I chose to continue to trade a little outside that window. Now, during July and August, I had had some good fortune trading in the afternoon, but I think it was because the market was particularly hot. And once the colder markets set in here in September, that hot streak ran out and those big winners in the afternoon were gone. So I had to rein myself in. But if you don't know what your metrics are here based on time of day, based on the price stock and so on so forth, then it's going to be really hard to make decisions of what is A quality. So you could tell here for me, A quality meant raining in the time of day I was going to trade, which I also did. I forgot to mention that, but I rained in to only trade from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. And price I said under under 20. So just to keep it under 20, which for the most part was sort of a no brainer, but I do sometimes dabble in higher price stocks, but these weren't really the bigger contributors to loss. So I would encourage you to analyze your metrics and make a commitment to only trade those A quality setups. When I had my big turning point, the one that resulted in me actually becoming consistently profitable, which is now was more than a decade ago, when I had that turning point, the discovery that I made was that I actually was a profitable trader. If I stopped having losers, and I bet you all would be that way too. But no, really, what I discovered was that I actually would have been over the previous like six months or eight months, whatever it was I was looking at, I would have been profitable. If I had stopped trading some of these very particular setups that I was trading, including trading past 11 a.m. That was a big discovery for me more than 10 years ago that when I traded past 11 a.m. I lost money. Now, over the decades plus since there have been times where trading past 11 a.m. has been very profitable. And there's other times where it's not been as good. But in those early years, I recognize that I was making the most money in the first hour of the day from about 9 30 market open until about 10 30 11. And then that was my hard stop. And so I told myself, if you only trade even just once a day, just one trade a day, but it's an a quality set up based on what your metrics are telling you, you make money on, you will be more profitable than you've been for the last six months. It's over the last six months. You've been losing money. So even if I'm only making $200 a day, I'd be turning the corner. And after all, $50,000 a year is nothing to sneeze at, especially when you're living in a rural area, which has been the case for me for all these years. So that was my turning point. So moving forward, I said, all right, there might be some days where I don't see an a quality set up and I need to bring the patients, the discipline, you know, the ability to hold myself back to restrain myself and say, I'm not going to trade out of boredom. If there's not an a quality set up, I simply won't trade. And so I followed those rules. And the result was that less was more. And that's just the incredible thing. If you looked at my metrics, you would see that from the period before I turn the corner, if you just looked at, let's do, let's plot two things. So we're going to plot trade quantity and we're going to plot profitability. So let's see, what's the best way to do this? So trade quantity here. So as you increase the number of trades, so yeah, so let's do it like this. So this is going to be trade quantity and this is going to be profit. So if you only take one trade per day, there's going to be a limit to how much you can make at one trade per day. Now, look, you could still, you could still make money. You could still make some profit. You know, one trade a day, you could do $200 a day, something like that. And I think that if you can't make money with just one trade a day, there's really no reason to scale up. But let's just say you go to five trades a day, you go to 10, you go to 15. What I noticed was this sort of diminishing return, where at a certain point, you go up to 25, you go up to 50, you go up to 100, and well, I guess that doesn't really, that doesn't quite work. I guess we actually have to do it this way. So profit, profit is on this scale. This is profit. And this is trade quantity. So when you start trading 100 trades up here, your profit is actually declining. That's the way we should do it. So I sometimes I get confused when I do this. All right. So anyway, so this is what I kind of noticed is that once you start to get up to this level, you decrease. Now, what you could argue is that last week I was trading in sort of this area here, where and there's sort of another plot here, which is like, you know, accuracy. But I was trading in this area here with really high accuracy, but the total quantity of trades was at 76, right? Now we, I guess we've probably find that I'm topping out, you know, around 200. So 175 is maybe my peak. So how can I introduce more trades without causing this? And I think this is the thing that I find to be really fascinating about trading. So now that we've gotten all this, and hopefully this all makes sense to you, maybe grab that. All right. So now we're going to look at this sort of comparison of setup quality. So what is an A quality setup? And I'll use my darker green so you can see a little bit better. So to me, an A quality setup, A plus quality setup, is going to be a stock that meets all five pillars of stock selection. So some of you guys know I have the five pillars of stock selection. Number one, we've got to have price, number two, rate of change, number three, relative volume, number four, news, number five, float. Those are all expanded on in detail in this book and in my class. You can check guys, can check that out. So if I see a stock that meets all four or all five criteria for stock selection and just really perfectly exemplifies an A quality stock, then naturally I'm going to want to be aggressive on it. I'm going to trade it. I'm going to try to make as much as I can. So what I find is that when I trade just A quality setups, my accuracy is up around 80%. And you know, we could look at my other instances of this. If we look at, let's see, January through January, and we're just going to go back to like 2017 here, we're going to go way back, but the reason we're going to go way back is because this was my small account challenge that I funded with $583 and 15 cents. So during this period right here, my accuracy was an impressive 94%, 94%. Now the only reason, I mean, my accuracy is that high is because during this period, I started with $583 and I had zero cushion. I could not afford any loss. So I literally only traded a plus plus plus quality setups during that stretch. I was super, super disciplined, right now when, when, but then that, that we sort of have the problem there, which is that I was only taking, well, how many trades I take in that window, I had 34 trades. So if I've only got 34 trades, I'm taking the, the issue is that I'm, I'm just limiting how much I can make in total because the quantity of trades is too low, right? We're down here at 32 or whatever. So you know, the profit was $9,000, which was great on a $500 account, but eventually I want to kind of, you know, get a little bit higher than that. So as you could see here, oops, sorry about that. Well, it's always a good reminder to say as I'm going over this, that my results are not typical and that trading is risky. But what we, if we clear this out, you'll see that I've grown the account, got $13 million here of, of gross profit and accuracy has come down to 68%. And this is over the course of like 28,000 trades. So I had to, I wanted more trades, but that required sacrifice and accuracy. So if I start trading a B quality set up, I would say a B quality set up and, you know, A plus is like B, but a B quality set up is probably where I'm going to be between. I would honestly say between 60 and 70%. I know there's a little bit of a gap here between the 70 and the 80. And that's probably going to be like a plus and just standard A, you know, standard A is going to be more of 70 to 80. Now the, the reality is when I'm trading, I'm not grading every set up. It's like, you know, this isn't like maple syrup where I'm like, oh, this looks like it's a plus, you know, like I'm not grading it like that based on like gradient shades of color, anything like that. It's a little bit of kind of guesswork like, okay, this is, I suppose we could say this was a, this was a B quality set up. So the way I think of it is that an A quality set up is a stock A plus is a stock that's absolutely perfect. But here's the problem, trade quantity, TQ, how many A plus absolutely perfect setups do we see each day? It could be between zero and three, you know, on a really good day. We may not, we may not see any, but on a really good day, we may see three, maybe we'll see five like perfect A quality setups because the thing is an A quality set up for me is usually going to be a stock that meets all five criteria of stock selection that is just come out with breaking news and is squeezing up. And that first pullback is like A quality. That's what I call my micro pullback setup, which is what I teach in that free intro class to day trading, which you guys can check out. Again, not to be a broken record, but the links in the comments. So that's that setup. But the thing is there's really only how many stocks pop up each day with breaking news, you know, you might not get even three or five. So really realistically, you might get zero or you might get one or two. So typically it's, I would say zero to three is going to be the trade quantity. But then if you go down to A, I would say here, you're easily going to see, you know, five, five to 10 A quality setups per day. And again, this is going to be in a hot market and a cold market. Everything is a little bit more reduced. It could be reduced by half where you might not see, you might only see two eight quality setups a week and a couple eight quality per day. So then on the B quality setup, this is where we're going to see. I mean, we might see, you know, 15 to 50. I mean, in a hot market, you might see a lot and then C quality setups. This is where we're going down to, you know, 50 to 60% accuracy. You might be able to see, you know, a hundred plus of these per day, again, in a hot market, but let's remember, you know, that as you're introducing the quantity of trade, the accuracy is going down. And so then what's going to happen to your profit to loss ratio? So if we look at my profit loss ratio here over the long term, it's been about one to one. So one to one to me is when I'm kind of blending all of these together. They kind of come out to one to one, but these down here could easily be one to two where the average losers are twice the average winners. This is maybe more like one to one barely. Honestly, this is probably even still a bit negative 1.5. This is probably one to one. And this is where we're like two, two to one or higher positive. You know, maybe we could say this is two to one and this is more like three to one. But so for the month of, oh, I guess we've deleted that or erased it. But for the month of September, I was averaging about three to one, about 82% three to one. And then if we looked at the month of August, August was a pretty solid month for accuracy. So let's just check to see what August came out to for profit loss ratio. So the month of August profit loss ratio, uh, two to one. So nice two to one profit loss ratio was 70% accuracy. So 70% accuracy, two to one. Okay. So that kind of tracks and then be quality 60 to 70%, more like 1.5 to one, you know, something in here. So blended for me, it all comes out to about one to one. And my blend is about 66% accuracy. So if we come over here, you know, I'm right up about 66% accuracy, 66% and one to one ratio. And to be honest, I feel like I'm probably, I feel like I'm probably hovering right about here. Because honestly, I feel like I would make more money and have a more sustainable longterm, better profit loss ratio if I traded less, but focused on increasing quality. So I actually think even today I have room to improve up to here. And if I can get up to here, then I may also have the confidence to increase my share size a little bit more. And then the total net is that I could actually potentially be a more profitable trader. And I think this is the amazing thing about trading is that you could do this for decades and still find opportunity for improvement. That's why I think it's so fun about trading. You know, this isn't a job where, you know, I think of someone who's maybe like a math teacher or something like that, or maybe a history teacher, because history is history. It doesn't, you know, it doesn't change, right? Math is math. It's kind of like the same. So if you're teaching like, you know, math 101 or algebra 101, you're kind of teaching the exact same curriculum, like every semester of every year for your entire career. I mean, I'm sure there's ways to make it interesting. And look, if you love what you do, then by all means, I'm not trying to give anyone a hard time here. I'm just thinking that what I really love about trading and why it's so engaging for me and so fascinating and why I love teaching it is because it's different. It changes. And that for me, maybe it was like a tension span, but that's something that really connects with me. And so when I see people that come into trading who are like, you know, 65 or, you know, they've just retired from a career of something else, you're like, I want to do something that's like mentally stimulating. I've been kind of burned out from just like, don't punch in the clock every, you know, year or 25 years. Trading is like really a great career in that aspect. Over the weekend, I did, I took a trip to a jewelry shop with my wife. She wanted to, she has a ring from her grandmother that she wanted to repurpose. You know, it's something special. And so he went into this little jewelry shop and this guy, he's an old man. He kind of, I hope he doesn't watch this. He's not that old, but he's, he's all, he's older than me. He's retirement age for most people. Most people probably would have retired, but he hasn't retired. And his wife who works in the shop, she said, uh, jewelers don't retire. They just lean their head down on their tool, uh, their, their work bench. And then they die. And I was like, ooh, but, um, but I kind of liked that in a way because, um, he brought us down to his workspace and it was, it was amazing. It was all these old cabinets, all these hammers and mallets and like all these different things. And it's just like, yeah, I love seeing people's like creative space, probably like you guys, maybe like seeing this space for me, but his was like the opposite of this cause there's nothing technical, technological, it was all like old fashioned tools. And anyways, what I loved was that he's not working a job where he can't wait till he retires, you know, that song, everybody's working for the weekend. I don't like that. I want to live for today. I want to enjoy what I'm doing today. And I do and I think so many traders enjoy it as well, but you get a lot more enjoyment when you're finding success. And the thing that's awesome about training is that you can get these little hints at success. You're like, Oh, okay. This is working. I get it, but then you have a setback, but you've tasted the good life. You know what it's like when it works. So you're like, I just need to get back there. And I think the path back there, the roadmap to profit is by first focusing on accuracy, accuracy is number one. Let's focus on quality over quantity. So I really think that this is the place to start, because this is the beginning of that positive feedback loop. You focus on high accuracy and let's just say that I continue doing what I'm doing right now, focusing on a quality setups. And I can bump this from 66 up to 75% accuracy. What's that going to do? It's going to improve my profit loss ratio. We know it does because it always does. Every time my accuracy goes up, my profit loss ratio follows. It just seems to be that when you introduce more losers, you end up catching the stray loss that becomes big. So accuracy first, profit loss ratio improves. So now with improved profit loss ratio, what comes next? Then that's where we see the consistency, right? We've got the calendar with all the green days. Consistency goes up. And then what happens next? Then we increase trade quantity. And again, within reason, well, actually, first, we should increase trade share size. We increase trade share size to maximize the profitability on the current trades that we're taking. And then as the market supports it, we increase trade size. And this is going to be in hot market dependent. Both of these are really market dependent, but you do both of those in a hot market and then boom, that number just keeps getting bigger and bigger and bigger and you're starting that positive feedback loop. And I'm telling you guys, I have been through it. I have gone through these incredible periods of trading where all of a sudden I get onto a hot streak and it's like things just open up. If we look at, let's see, we'll go January 1st, 2020, like the beginning of the pandemic through August of 2020. This was one of the most incredible stretches of my trading career. I mean, it was truly unbelievable because all of a sudden, what ended up happening was we got this massive influx of liquidity into the market. We had the stimulus. We had all this stuff going on and just look at this. All of a sudden I go from just kind of churning, chugging along to boom, just this unbelievable squeeze where I make, you know, ended up with five million dollars of profit in one year out of nowhere. And if we look, well, let me just add a curiosity. Let's see what my accuracy was. So accuracy, 73 percent, really nice high accuracy, profit loss ratio, fourteen hundred dollar winners, which are great. Those average winners are three times as big as what I'm currently trading. And average losses were twelve hundred. So it's a positive profit loss ratio, not as good as it could have been. Average total trades was let's see, four hundred sixty thousand shares of volume per day. That was over the course of about nine months. Total number of trades was forty two hundred. So four to three hundred. So about three hundred trades approximately per three hundred fifty per. Per month, three hundred fifty per month. So about a hundred approximately a hundred trades a week. So a hundred trades a week and then that would be about twenty trades a day. So wow, only twenty trades a day, but really increasing the quantity there. Well, I guess that was through eight. No, so it was it would all be a little bit higher. So probably like thirty trades a day. Thirty trades a day, but larger share size trading fifteen thousand share average positions. But again, that comes back down to reducing quantity and focusing on quality. So, you know, that's just rough kind of back in the napkin analysis of that period. But this is the stuff that I'm doing all the time. Analyzing my metrics, I'm looking at periods that were really good, but I'm also looking at periods that are really bad. I'm asking myself, what's the pattern that I can learn? Because the better I get it, recognizing these patterns, the better I'll get it leaning in during a hot streak and easing off the throttle when it starts to get cold. So look, if you guys enjoyed this episode, I hope you hit that thumbs up. I hope you subscribe to the channel. I hope you check out my free class. You can download a copy of how to day trade the plain truth. And I look forward to seeing you for the next upload real soon. And I'll remind you, as always, trading is risky. My results aren't typical, so manage your risk, take it slow. I'll see you back here for the next upload real soon.