# 45. What Beginners Get Wrong About Level 2 💥 Day 4 | Small Account Challenge
# id=4syXgXshgsc (whisper base.en)

Let me ask you a question, how much would you love to be able to see into the future of the financial markets? To be able to know certainty what the price is going to do next? In fact, the most successful traders in the markets seem to be able to do exactly that. They've developed an edge in the market and that edge comes from pattern recognition. Learning that when this happens, this follows. And when you develop that recognition of a pattern, every time you see that pattern, you are now able to predict with some degree of certainty what's going to happen next. In today's episode, I'm going to teach an in-depth guide into the tool that I use in my own trading every single day to try to attempt to predict where the price is going to go. Now, I'm not trying to predict where the price is going to be a week from now or a month from now. I'm an active trader, so I'm just focusing on where the price is going to be in the next five minutes, the next 10 minutes, the next 15 minutes. But you know what? I've been able to do it with a pretty high degree of success. My edge is a combination of stock selection, trading very specific technical patterns using candlestick charts and using this one tool that I'm going to share with you today. The tool is level two. When you learn to read level two, you are visualizing and reading the depth of the market. You can see all the buyers, you can see all the sellers, and you can interpret sentiment from all of those orders, so much so that you can begin to predict where the price is going to go next. Now, I'll tell you, there's no such thing as a strategy or a tool that's going to be right 100% of the time, and mine is no exception, and level two is no exception. But using this tool, I am doing right now about 68, 70% accuracy, and in my small account challenge today is day four. In day four, I have locked up another green day. I now have five trades under my belt, four winners, five one loser, which gives me 80% accuracy. And so with 80% accuracy right now, I'm pulling out all stops, because for this small account challenge, I can't afford to make any mistakes. I can't add more money into the account, and I have a goal of growing this account to $25,000, and while I'd love to grow it to $25,000 as quickly as possible, what's more important than speed is actually finishing this challenge and crossing that goal. And so for this challenge, I'm focusing on the area of my strategy where I have the highest degree of conviction. So I'm focusing on the absolute best A quality stocks, the best setups, and using the best tools. So let's go ahead and get oriented here. On the screen, we've got two platforms. On the left, we've got Day Trade Dash, which is the software that I've developed that I use every single day for my trading. This is for charting, scans, breaking news. It also has my chatroom and my live audio video broadcast for members at Warrior Trading. And then on the right here, we have Thinkorswim. Thinkorswim is the platform that I'm using for this current small account challenge. And Thinkorswim does have a level two window, as you can see right down here at the bottom. So this is the level two right here. So what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to grab a screenshot of this. Let's see. Let me let that fade. I'm going to do a screenshot and then we're going to start annotating the screen grab. All right. So I'm going to paste this here and let's zoom in on what we've got going on. All right. So I want to zoom in on this here. I'll make this full screen. This is our level two window. So what's going on on the level two? What does all of this mean? This is a lot of data. You know what? I'll tell you, when I got started, when I first started trading, I didn't know anything. I didn't even know level two existed. I knew nothing about it. I thought when a stock is trading at $12, it means it's trading at $12. I didn't understand even at that time quite exactly how it worked with a bid and an offer. But for those of you guys who perhaps know more about the market than I did when I was getting started, every stock does have a bid and an offer. A bid is what buyers are willing to pay and the offer is what sellers are willing to receive and they create the level two. So this right here is level two. But the current quote of this stock is $14.66. Now what's interesting is $14.66 is actually the last price that went through. That was the last price. But if we actually looked at the level two, what we see is that this stock is showing $14.65 by $14.66 right here. So it has a one cent spread. There's only a one cent difference between $65 and $66. In the case of the bid right here, the bid is where buyers will post orders. If you want to buy a stock, you can buy by sitting on the bid. You could say, this is how much I'm willing to pay for this stock. I want to buy, does anyone want to sell me shares? If you sit on the bid, you have to wait for someone to come and sell you shares. The problem with sitting on the bid is that it requires patience. The way I trade, when I see a stock moving, do you think I sit on the bid? And wait for someone to sell me shares? No way. I'll miss the whole move. When I see a stock moving, I'm going to buy from one of these sellers on the ask right here who is happily selling shares at $14.66. In fact, in this example right here, why even bother waiting to save an extra penny per share? Do the math. You save one penny, one cent per share on a thousand shares. It's $10. You're going to save $10. On the other hand, you may miss the opportunity to take the trade at all. If you were going to get in at $14.65, let's say your stock was $14.50, you're risking $150. Let's say your profit target is a squeeze up towards $15 a share. You want to make $0.40. That's $400 a profit for $150 of risk. Who cares about the $10 a slippage between the bid and the ask? The difference between the bid and the ask is called the spread. If you get in and you sit on the bid, you'll have no slippage. But if you buy at the ask, it's possible you'll get a little slippage. You get filled maybe at $66.65 like this order went through. So it's actually just a little bit above. So it's $15 higher than someone who's sitting patiently to buy at the bid. But I'm telling you, if you want to get in a stock that's moving, sitting on the bid, you're going to sit and wait and wait and wait. So what I look at, when I first am getting ready to take a trade, level two is not the first thing that I pull up. My first order of business, and this is as per the strategy that I trade every single day, step one is to try to find a stock that's moving. So GLMD right now is up over 300%. This is a stock that I made the most money on in my main account. And I'll show you the trades that I took in the small account today. Well, it was just one single trade. It was not GLMD. I took a trade before GLMD started to make this big move, which really began kind of at the open. But nonetheless, each day, the first thing I do is I check my scanners to try to find a stock that's moving. That's step one. If a stock is not moving, there's no point in pulling up the level two. That is a tool that I use when I'm trying to decide if I'm going to actually execute the trade and that I'm watching once I'm in the trade to look for an exit indicator. But I'm not just going to pull up the level two if a stock is not already moving. So step one, I find a stock that's moving and I'm going to find that usually on my top gainers scanner right here or on my small cap high of day momentum scanner right here or on my running up scanner right here. These are the three scanners that I'm using the most. So step one is to find a stock. So in the case of GLMD, I might click on the stock and think, okay, it's $15 a share. So it's a little more expensive. It's not, you know, I usually prefer between two and 10. So it's a little more expensive. The float is 421,000 shares. So it's a very low float stock. It's the number of shares available to trade and it's traded 73 million shares today, which means the float has rotated 150 times. In other words, there's only 421,000 shareholders, 421,000 shares out there. Those are the total number of shares. So if someone owned every single one of those shares and they wanted to sell today for 300 percent profit, would they have been able to sell? Well, based on the fact that there's 73 million shares of volume, they would have easily been able to sell. In fact, 150 times over, they would have been able to sell. So this is a stock that has a huge amount of volume. The relative volume is very high and it meets all of my criteria for stock selection. Now I'll actually post a link, think or swim downloads. It's going to be posted in at the top of the comments and pinned in the description where you can download three things. Number one, my think or swim layout. Number two, my micro pullback strategy as a PDF. That's my favorite way to buy a strong stock. And number three, my five pillars of stock selection. So if you download these three, you'll get two PDFs and my layout, then you can use the five pillars of stock selection to better understand the type of stocks I'm going to be trading each day. So step one is to find a stock that meets those criteria. Step two, I then do my due diligence and I'm checking the fundamental catalyst. I'm looking at the news and I'm starting to pull up the chart. Once I get to a point where I'm like, okay, I like this stock and I'm interested in trading it. It's only at that point that I pull up the level two. And sometimes it'll be at that point that I pull up the level two and I realize, ooh, I'm not going to be able to trade this. So what would I see on the level two that would tell me I can't trade this? Let me see if I can find an example. That was not great. This one, let's see, VA. How about this? Now that's going to be able to problem. See how it shows 720 on the bid and 838 on the offer? How big is that spread? It's over a dollar a share. That means if I bought this, if I bought this right here, right now, I would have to be down over a dollar a share. That would be a guaranteed loss, a big loss. So when I pull up the level two on this stock, it's actually communicating something very interesting. It's telling us that there are not a lot of buyers and there's also not a lot of sellers. But the fact that there's just not a lot of volume in total and there's not a lot of orders means that I wouldn't be able to manage my risk number one. Number two, unfortunately, in this particular case, it also probably means that there's not a lot of other people that are really interested in this stock. I probably have the wrong idea. And in fact, if I pulled up this level two, I would have to go back and question my five criteria for stock selection to ask whether or not this actually met those criteria because based on this level two, it doesn't seem that it meets the volume or the liquidity to support a trade. On the other hand, what about something like this? Ooh. Now, see, I don't like that either. And I don't like that for a different reason, which is kind of interesting. So we have two extremes. On the left, we have V-E-E-A, and on the right, we have Bank of America. And these are my level two windows that I use for light speed, which is the platform that I use. They look a little different than the Thinkorswim platform back here, but essentially they're communicating the same information. The colors are just different. I'll walk you through the colors in a moment. So the problem with Bank of America is that this is a stock that actually has sold 7.9 billion shares onto the open market. The float is humongous. And as a result, it is very thickly traded. What that means is that the stock is so congested with buyers and sellers that it doesn't really move that quickly. It's like a snail. It moves so slowly. It's impossible for this to go up 10% in one day. It almost never happened. So if it can't go up even 10% in one day, it doesn't seem that it would be worth trading. The only way to make money on something like that would be to use a tremendous amount of leverage. But using leverage carries a lot of risk. A lot of traders who trade 4X use a lot of leverage. You could do it, but it carries a lot of risk. What I would rather do is trade something that actually has the potential to go up 50 or 100% or more, more like GLMD. So I'll move these two level two windows down. These are two examples of level two where I would pull it up and I'd be like, nope, I can't take the trade. So let's talk about what we're seeing in terms of data. So we've got the bid on the left. And this is showing us the buyers. And these are the prices, 1465, 1462, 1462, 61, 60, 60, 1391, 1386, 1381. And the price goes down as we move further away from the current price. Now I don't know why Thinkorswim shows some of these in green and some of them in red, because ultimately these are all buyers who have placed orders, so they shouldn't be colored that way. But in any case, that's how they have it. Now this column right here refers to the number of shares this person is trying to buy at that price. 28 shares? That doesn't seem like a lot. Well, they abbreviate, they abbreviate by taking away two zeros. So 28 is 28, 100, 36 is 36, 100, two is 200, one is 100. And so most platforms are like that, including the platform that I'm using right here, 111, those are all 100 share orders, Bank of America, 20, you know, 1900, 700, 800, 700, 200, 300, 200, 200, 200, 200, 300, et cetera. So these are all a little abbreviation. 100, 200, et cetera. It's the same for every stock. So we've got our bid right here. These are our buyers. These are our sellers. So they meet at the middle. This is the highest price buyer, and this is the lowest price seller, but there's also people that are selling at higher prices, 67, 70, 71, 80, 15, 52, 15, 52, 15, 54, and sometimes you'll see that there's several orders at the same price. There may be multiple people all trying to sell at the same price, and then 1604, 1664, and then a bunch of people at 1689. So let me present this to you. What if, for instance, we have the level two here, and we'll draw a little level two out. We have the bid, and we've got the ask right here, and this is going to be our time and sales. So that's going to show us the quote of every order that goes through the market. All right, so we're going to separate it like this. So we're going to say, and we'll just do the same color. So we'll say this is 750, and this is a 3,000 share order. So it's going to show 30, right, just like that. And we'll say this on this side here is 765, and this is a 5,000 share order, and let's say we go down to 767, 770, and what if down here at 780, like this, we saw a 50,000 share order. What if we saw that? What would that tell us? Well, based on seeing that right there, we can now see into the future. We know that there's someone selling 50,000 shares at 780. That could be a fairly large order. Now for most stocks, 50,000 shares is a fairly large order. If this stock happened to have 150 million shares of volume, maybe 50,000 shares isn't huge. But if it's got a million or 2 million shares of volume, 50,000 share sell order is big. And that means this person right here is going to create a wall of resistance. While the price may be able to go from 765 to 67 to 70, and eventually maybe there'll be people that sell at 71, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, when we come up to 780, we've got a wall and that's going to be resistance. Now, what sometimes we'll also notice is that 780, there'll be another seller. Maybe there's one for 25,000 shares. Maybe there's another one here for 30,000 shares. And now this only sends a stronger message. So imagine you bought this at 765 and you said, I'm going to hold this till it goes to 8, but you didn't see this. Well, now you're trading in a way blind. You're missing this data because the thing that's really interesting is that when you're looking at your chart, you'll be looking at your chart and your chart isn't giving you that signal. Your chart just looks clean. You've done your technical analysis. You've got your first candle making you high. Everything looks great on the chart, but the stock doesn't work. And why is that? And it's because you haven't looked at this one tool closely enough. You haven't checked your level two. Your level two shows big sellers up here. And that's what's causing the problem. Now on the flip side, let's say we don't have those sellers. We don't have any sellers like that up in the 70s, 780s, whatever. It's just, you know, there's another order at 85, and then there's an order at 98, and then there's, you know, 810 and 825, right? So the orders just keep going up and there's no issue. And what if down here at 740, we saw a 100,000 share buyer, right? We saw a huge buyer down here. What if there was another one at 740 for 50,000 shares, right? So now all of a sudden, what does that tell us? If you were thinking about shorting it, you might want to think again, because the stock's probably not going to drop. If you were thinking about buying it at 750, what you would now know is that there is a tremendous amount of support right underneath your entry, only 10 cents below your entry. Now what gets kind of interesting here is that in a sense, you could almost take this trade here where you'd say, I'm going to buy it 750 and I'm going to set my stop at 739. As long as these buyers stay here, I'm going to stay in. If they're staying in, I'm staying in. Now your chart, when you pull up your actual candlestick chart, let's just say, for instance, you pull up your chart and let's say it looks something like this. You've got a green candle here, a green candle here, another green candle, you've got a little red doji, a small red body candle, another little red doji, and then this is the green candle right here. And let's say, let's just say, for the sake of argument, that right down here, what's the low of that pullback? Now, of course, we are stopped, let's just say that's 740. Well isn't that interesting? Right at 740, there's a huge buyer on the bid creating support. Now it could be that that right there is 750 and your huge buyer is just a couple cents lower at 740 and that would be interesting as well. Or what if it's a little different? What if the low down here is 735, but all of a sudden this big buyer came in right here at 740? Maybe what we would say is I'm going to go ahead and get in at 750, which was the first candle to make a new high. That was my entry anyways, but I'm not going to hold till 735, the low of the pullback. I'm just going to use this big buyer on the level 2 to help establish that that is my stop point. And so this creates almost a second level of risk management that by better understanding the depth of the market, you can see where there are big buyers that you could choose to sell to if you decide you don't want to keep holding and where there are big sellers who might cause an issue if you're hoping that this stock is going to make a quick move up. Right? Now, here's something that's really interesting. When we're looking at a stock in real time, let's say you want to buy shares, you have the two options. The option number one is that you sit here at 750 and you just wait for someone to come and sell you shares. Or maybe what you could do if you want to get a little fancy is you could put your order. Let's see. What was the spread? 750 by 765. You've got a 15 cent spread here. You could put your order at 755 to buy a thousand shares, right? You could cut the spread. You could go up a little bit and maybe someone will come and sell you shares and you'll get filled. But that doesn't always happen. And so if it doesn't happen, then you end up just sort of sitting there. Your order just sits there and you wait. But if you do the way I do and you say, you know what, I want to get in this, I'm going to buy a thousand shares right now and I'm going to get in at 765. I'm buying from this person right here. Your order will go through what's called the time and sales. The time and sales reports every single order that is placed on a stock. And that order will be one of three colors. It'll be green if the transaction is initiated through a buyer. If a buyer presses the buy button and buys shares from a seller, it's a buy order that goes through in green. Remember, whenever there's a transaction, well, you just bought a thousand. This person had 5,000 shares. Now they've got 4,000 left because you just bought a thousand of them. Now maybe someone else says, oh, I see someone else bought a thousand shares. I'm going to buy a thousand shares two at 765 and now it goes to three. And then you say, someone else says, I want to buy a thousand shares. And then it goes to two, right? And it goes down to two. And then someone else says, you know what, I'm going to buy 2,000 shares. And actually, to be correct, the newest order would be at the top of the tape, but we'll just do it like this just because it's easy. So then 2,000 shares and then all of a sudden that order is gone and now the price moves up, boom, to 67, right? Now, if someone buys those orders, those shares, it goes up to 70. Someone buys those, they go up to 70 to 80. And of course, this all moves up. So you're seeing the very top is now 85. So 85 moves up. And now maybe you can see a little bit further down to 835, 845, 850, et cetera. So let me show you an example of what this looks like. Oh, and one other thing that I didn't mention, although it's not as important is the exchange if the order is going through one. So what you could see right here, EX, this is the exchange. Bats, H, NASDAQ, ARCA, EDJX, OTC. That's the exchange that the order is being routed on. So that's not super helpful information, to be honest, but it's, it's there. And so it's, it's just included. All right. Now let me show you an example here of level two and some price action. And you can actually watch these sellers that get bought up. So to get you oriented here, this is my light speed trading platform, which is a little bit different from, from Thinkorswim. Oops, let me just resume this posit. Thinkorswim, what I like about the level two on light speed is that you can change the colors of it. So you see how green. There's only one row in green. Now there's two back to one, back to two, two rows in green, one row in green, two rows. The reason it's changing is because green is the number of orders that are the best. So if we go to Bank of America, we've got, you know, two, four, six, eight, nine, or whatever orders that are all sitting at that best price. You go to another stock. It's a bunch of orders that are all at that best price series, what I meant. Bunch of orders all at the same price. Okay. So I like having it colored that way because it's easier for me to see how many buyers are at one tier. See right there, you've got a 13,000 share buyer at 23. Now what's also interesting about that is it's very common to see big buyers near areas of psychological support, such as half dollars and whole dollars. That's very common. So in the case of Thinkorswim, Thinkorswim doesn't let you color this. So it's a gradient. You see how it's sort of a gradient? It's just 65, 62, 61. It just goes from sort of lighter blue to darker blue. It's just a gradient. So the problem is this area right here where you've got four orders stacked at the same price or this area here, we've got two orders at the same price. It's easy to miss that, but I think it's important when I see that there's multiple orders at the same price, I get curious about why, why is there this clear support or resistance at that price? So with light speed, you can actually go in and you can color your tears. So you can see clearly what's there. Now we're going to get oriented here. We're looking at this stock right down here. The symbol ticker is Mark and this is our recording from a while ago, but it's a great example on the ask, how many shares do we see? 15,000 and how many sellers are there? One, two, three, four, five, six, maybe seven. All right, so I'm going to press play. And now what you're seeing here is this is the time in sales showing all of the orders that are going through and a lot of them are in green. And as people are buying, the seller gets smaller. So 15, 12, five, and then it goes up to 46 to 46. And now it's 247 and there's a 13,000 share seller, 13, and then it goes to seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, now just 700 shares left and it goes to 48. And now it goes to 49 and at 49, there was a seller got bought up. Now we're going up to 50. Right here, we have actually over 90, over 100,000 shares on the ask. We've got 52,000 shares at 50 right there. We've got another 41,000, another 13,000. So those are a lot of sellers sitting on the ask and they're getting bought up. Look how fast that got bought up. It goes to 50. Now it goes up to 55. And on that trade, I took a quick profit. It goes up to 56, 57. And you can see how the buyers are getting bought up. And then of course it had that little flush and there was a burst of red on the tape. It dips down and then it bounces back up. It comes back up to 54, 55. There's a seller at 55. See, 20,000 shares, 22 on the ask, the biggest seller is at the top. And then 15,000 is the next biggest and then 5,000 is the one below that. So when I look at a stock like this, I would tell you that this looks pretty thickly traded. You've got some big sellers out on it. You know, it's up 40% on the day. But gosh, it's obviously thickly traded. It's not, you know, it's these big sellers are causing a bit of an issue. If you didn't have all those sellers, think about where this would have been. Probably at 275 or higher. So there it is, 19,000 on the ask and then it's 18 and then 16, 15. And then all of a sudden, 13, boom, it goes to 57, 58 now 59 now 60. And this is where you're getting that surge of momentum up to 61, 62. This is that burst of volume coming in. So if we go back there, you'll see that I actually took a trade right in that area. So what was I doing? Was I looking at the chart or was I looking at the level two? Now, of course, I first had to do my due diligence and decide that this is a stock that met my five criteria for being worth trading. So make sure you download the Thinkorswim special downloads for the small account challenge so you can learn about my five criteria for stock selection. And then I pull up the chart. And then at that point, my eye is really focused right in here. This is what I'm looking at and I'm looking at that big seller and I'm glancing at the bid and I'm noticing that there's only a one cent spread. So I've got a very tight spread between the bid and the offer and I'm thinking that if this thing breaks 55, it might go. So I end up putting my mouse on the buy button right here. My order is actually a limit order of 259. That means the most I would pay is 259. So if it popped up very quickly, I could get filled to 259, but I wouldn't get filled higher than that. The order is for 2000 shares, it's not a huge order. And right, it looks like I'm about to click it right there. I click it 58 and now it goes 60 and I'm expecting because I'm seeing this surge of buying that we're going to pop up a couple cents a share. So there's 62, 63 and just like that, it's a small winner. Now, maybe that's only a $60 winner, but you do that with 5,000 shares. It starts to add up. And of course, the more you trade, the more of those winners you can add up. One of the things that's really nice about the strategy that I trade is that I see dozens of opportunities every single day. So usually I stop trading, not because I run out of opportunities, but because I'm happy with how much money I've made. Now, in this Thinkorswim Small Account Challenge, I can only take one trade per day before I run out of cash. So that is my biggest limitation, is running out of buying power. And I did run out of buying power today. All right, now let's look at another example of a live trading archive here. So this one's kind of interesting. So on this one here, there's a hidden seller at $10 and 29 cents. So this stock here is halted. It's been halted on a circuit breaker. It got halted because the stock squeezed up more than 10% in less than five minutes. That can cause a stock halt. So the stock is halted and showing a resumption right now of 1029, as we can see right here. So we're watching the resumption on this. And as it resumes, it resumes and I see buyers coming in right there. I see those buyers coming in and I'm thinking, all right, if we break 1029, we're going to continue the squeeze. We halted up, now we're resuming, I'm looking for continuation. We dip down just for a second. We come back up, I add for the break of 29, right there at 29, I'm in. And now I'm realizing 29, mmm, getting a little stubborn there. See how it keeps hitting 29 to the penny? Gosh darn it, this thing, 29, you son of a gun, it does not want to break 29. Isn't that funny? 29 has become resistance. You can see it right here on the level two. Can you see it on the chart? Sort of, it's a double top. You can't see it as well on the chart. It's funny because the chart communicates a lot, but there's some things that kind of misses and you can't quite see that on the chart, but you can see it on the level two. So now it pulls back down again to 10 and we're going to dip down. And what I'm going to end up doing is I'm going to end up buying the dip and I'm going to add for the break of 29. And I want you to watch what happens when we break 29. I would say 29 right now is a level of resistance. And what typically happens when resistance breaks? Well usually we see a pretty big move. So right now we're dipping down and I'm still holding. Stocks up 57% on the day, it meets my criteria for being the right type of stock to trade and watches it squeezes back up here. I add down there at $10. Now watch this. We come up to $10.19. Oh my goodness. You see how much I'm up right now? I'm up $9,316.59 like that. How was I able to predict if that was going to happen? Now of course I didn't know with 100% certainty there was always the risk that it could have kept going down and I would have had to take my max loss. But I could tell that there was a little wall at $10.29 and I knew that once it broke, we would probably see a big squeeze because that's the pattern that I've become familiar with. Once they break, you get that big push. If I wait for it to break, I'll miss it. So I have to get in a little early. I'm in a little early and now all of a sudden in seconds, I'm up over $10,000. What a phenomenal trade. Let's back that up one more time so you can see it again. So I added 10. It comes back up here. It breaks 1019. Watch. I'm going to pause it really quickly. 10.25 and immediately instant. It goes straight to 10.79 by 10.95. It goes up to 11, over $11 a share. I take half off the table. I pay myself $4,500. I take a little more off the table. Incredible. I mean, it just doesn't get a lot cleaner than that. That was a beautiful trade. Now let me show you another one. This is an example of a big seller. All right. So I'm going to put this one on the screen share for you to see. So here we've got, it looks like, a seller perhaps holding up the party. All right. So on this stock right here, SFUN. Oh, there we go. So SFUN, we're looking at this stock right here. And this is the chart. The stock is squeezed from $5.15 up to $5.50. It's pulling back right now. We're looking for a possible break through $5.50. A break over the half dollar. So as we're watching it here, we're looking for this to squeeze through $5.50. So let's see what ends up happening. Watch as we come up to $5.50. Right there at $5.49. Do you see that seller? $53,000 shares. That's a wall. There's a huge wall there. Now for some reason, I don't know why this is sorted, not with the biggest order on the top. But anyways, that big seller is a problem. That's a wall. Until that seller breaks, there's no trade. And what makes it worse is that look at $57,000. There's another seller right there of $11,000 shares. So you've got two sellers causing an issue. So we don't like to see that. Here's another example I'll show you. So every single day while I'm trading, I'm looking at the level two. And the level two is helping me interpret whether or not I think the stock has a potential to make a big move and go higher or if it's going to stall out. So what do we have here? Oh, it's on this stock. Sorry. So on this stock here, let's see, right there at 1180, we've got 25,000 shares seller. So we've got a big seller right there. And it's 50 cents away, but it's a big seller, especially on a stock that has light volume. It's not going to be worth trading it. That's no good. That's a problem. So here's one more example I'll show you. And then we'll switch gears. So ABGR, another big seller. Oh, yeah, there you go. You could see that. So this stock is currently up 51%. Let's see. Oh, there it goes. So it's up 51% here. And we've come into the open. It's 9 a.m. And all of a sudden we come up to $2 and there's a 51,000, 60,000 share seller at 2. So already someone is selling shares. 40,000, 44 on the ask. Right? So when you see that big sell order, it's like, you know what? This thing's not going anywhere. So I don't buy when I see a big sell order blocking the way like that. That's the edge that the tape gives you. When you see the orders, you see these huge orders sitting on the offer, sitting on the bid, all of a sudden you can infer what's happening here. Right? If you pull up the stock and there's that big order, it's like, okay, there's support. There's someone buying right here. You pull up. There's a huge seller. We've got resistance right here. So now I have another tool that I can use every single day while I'm trading. Yes, stock selection is important. None of level two matters if you're choosing and trading the wrong stocks. If you're trading the wrong stocks, you're going to pull up Bank of America. You're going to trade stocks that aren't moving. You're going to get frustrated. That's not going to work. So level two is not the first thing that I look at. First, I have to do my checks of, is this the right type of stocks trade? What's the catalyst? What's the chart set up look like? But if I've done all of that, then I'm pulling up the level two and that's when I'm trying to make the decision of, will I actually take this trade? Is this a setup that I'm going to be able to buy? So like this right here, for instance, we've got this pattern where this is a stock that is now done a number of Jackknife breakouts, false breakouts here. It halted down here. It did another one right here. So in this area here, unfortunately, it just has too much risk of doing that again. So if I pulled up the level two on it, I might not see anything on the level two, but you know what I see right now? Just a pause for one second. What I see right now on this is a 26 cent spread, a 26 cent spread. That's kind of a big spread. You know, I don't really love seeing that. I'd rather not see a 26 cent spread. So you've got a bigger spread. You've got a stock that's jumping up and down really quickly. And unfortunately, this is a stock that it would be very difficult to manage risk on. It's just moving too fast. Look at how fast it goes to 14.75. So at this current price, you know, that you'll get the chart and sometimes you can't quite grasp the scale of how much it's going up and down. When you look at the level two and you see this whip, you realize now I wouldn't be able to manage my risk on that. So it doesn't matter how much that stock goes up. If I can't manage my risk, it's not worth looking at it any longer. I might as well look at something else. I might as well move on. If I can't manage my risk, there is no trade. If you're trading thinking just about profit potential, you're gambling. Now, the best traders out there, the ones who are really active, they're absolutely using level two. I know of very, very few traders who try to day trade without using level two. I think it would be the equivalent of trying to drive with one eye closed. Could you do it? Sure, but you're going to consume less information, less data, and it's going to put you at an inherent disadvantage. Not to mention depth perception. But I'm sure there's people to do it and you could do it. Could you trade with out level two? Sure, but why? Why would you do that? Why would you take away all of the data that's available here? Well, I'll give you a couple of things that people have said. Some people have said, you know, Ross, I don't like using level two because I get faked out. They get faked out. What does it mean to get faked out? Well, maybe they'll see that big seller, but then it ends up working anyways. And I say, well, okay, so you got faked out on that particular trade. I get faked out on some trades as well, but in net, in total, we look at my metrics and I know what I'm doing is working quite well. And I believe that level two is giving me that edge. It's helping me know when to get out of stock, when to get out of the way, when to get in, when something's going to go higher. Some people say, well, Ross, isn't it true that someone could put out a fake order? We've heard about hedge funds that do that. They put out huge sell orders to try to scare people away, or they put out huge buy orders to try to convince people to buy. And while it's true, we have heard about that. That's called order spoofing and it's illegal. So retail traders, if we did that with a retail broker, the retail broker would see it. They would kick us off the platform, we'd be gone. And we would probably get blacklisted and we wouldn't be able to open an account with any other broker. Do the institutional traders do it? I'm sure they do. I'm sure some of them do. But what types of stocks are they trading? Typically, Tesla, Nvidia, the S&P 500, large caps, maybe GameStop, maybe AMD. Okay, so if we know our lane, if we trade the right type of stocks, the stocks can be my five criteria of stock selection, those aren't the type of stocks where we're going to be fighting as much against institutional traders. And the reason is there's not enough money and profit potential for them to trade it. So let's think of an institutional trader right now that's managing a $100 million account. They've got a $100 million account and this stock GLMD has a 400,000 share float. And it began trading today, had a low of $5 a share, which means the total market cap of the stock this morning was like $2.5 million. $2.5 million. They'd have to buy the entire company. You know what happens if you buy the entire company? You've got to do regulatory filings. You're a majority owner. You can't just buy 100% of the company and then turn around and sell it, you know, half an hour later. Like that doesn't, typically, you wouldn't be able to do that anyways. Now this has enough volume where I suppose you could have, but nonetheless, institutional traders are not typically going to be interested in these types of stocks. They're just, there's not enough money for them. They want to trade the things they can move $40 million in and out of and make really big money. So I think the good news there is that we trade and we, liberally speaking, we as retail traders who are profitable and who are smarter are trading generally small cap stocks that are moving because they've got a catalyst. But these are small cap stocks that are not dominated by high frequency trading algorithms. They're not dominated by institutional traders. So we do have an edge. Now if you try to trade meta, you know, you try to trade Tesla, you'll get the level two on these stocks and that's actually a different game. Now, what I'm going to do here, I'm going to show you something real quick. This will be kind of interesting. Let's see, WM. So I'm going to show you this feed of market data and this feed is kind of interesting. This is actually going to show you, it's going to take a second to load. This is going to show you high frequency trading algorithms right here and the way they move their orders in and out of the market. So you might be able to see this. It's a little hard to read. But these are actual orders that are getting placed and canceled in real time by high frequency trading algorithms. So this is actually the visual of what level two looks like when you actually plotted on a chart, which most people wouldn't do. But if you did, this is a high frequency trading algorithm. These algorithms, what they're doing is they're placing orders and they're canceling them and they're placing them and they're canceling them. In fact, right here, these are live orders that are going on the book and you can see how dynamic they are. They appear and then they disappear. They move up, they move down. It's like flickering and this is, these are actual computer programs that are moving the price. They're moving the price up, they're moving the price down. They're responding to orders that are coming through the market and these are incredibly sophisticated computer algorithms that are designed to make money. Who are they making money for? The institutions. They're making money for the market makers. They make the market by actually sitting on both the bid and the offer at the same time. So when we come back to our level two example where we've got our bid and we've got our ask right here, a market maker will sit here to buy, they'll post in order to buy 10,000 shares and then they'll post in order to sell 10,000 shares. How do they do that? How can they buy and sell at the same time? Market makers are allowed to do that. They can be on both sides of the book and they have to be. So they buy and they sell. The way this works is you come along and you say, oh, I can't wait to sell this stock. Oh, this person wants to buy, I'll sell to them. So you sell them 10,000 shares. So now they own 10,000 shares, but they're also sitting right here. So then someone comes along and says, oh, I want to buy 10,000 shares. So then they buy them. So they can't sell out each other's orders, basically. When someone buys, they sell. When someone sells, they buy. And so how do they make money? They make money through the spread right here. So rather than having a one cent spread, a market maker would prefer to have a five cent spread or a 10 cent spread. So it would be, you know, 200 by let's say 225, $225, $200 and 25 cents. So a 25 cent spread there. So now on a 10,000 share order, they're making $2,500 across the spread. They do that 10 times in a day and they're up 25 grand, right? And that's the idea of a market maker. They buy and sell, they buy and sell. And they create liquidity because anytime someone wants to get in, they are right there, right to sell. And anytime someone wants to get out there, right there, right to buy. And so they arbitrage. They just profit from the short period of time between you buying and someone else coming along and selling and so on and so forth. But they utilize these incredibly sophisticated algorithms to make the market. So they adjust their prices of their orders based on market data. So if they see a flow of buyers come in, you know what they're going to do with that sell order? That sell order for 10,000 shares, what they could do is they could cancel it real quick and change it to 2,000 shares in an instant. They can do that. The second they see that big buy order come through on the time and sales, they can cancel their order before you even execute to buy their shares and they move their order up three cents. Maybe you buy a few cents higher. And some people criticize this because it's almost like they're able to jump in front of orders and then take money out of your pocket because you place the order and now they're saying, oh, I'll give you shares. But since I know you want them, I'm going to make you pay a little more. But regulators have said that they don't have a fiduciary obligation to you because you're just another trader. So they're allowed to take money out of your pocket. So when we see this type of price action, this is what large caps look like. This is what indices look like. Now you switch to something like GLMD. We'll switch back to that one. So GLMD, this one's going to be very different. This one has some splotches of orders down there where an order is placed and canceled. But for the most part, you could tell it's very different. It's mostly big order that sits there. There's a big order right now that's sitting up here at 1750 for 16,000 shares, another one at 17. And then there's a couple of big buy orders down here at 20 and 1150 and 1120, sorry, 11, both for 20,000 shares. So you could see these big buy orders, but just the way they're placed is different. It's much more organic. Let's see what's another stock that's up a bit today. SMSI, this one's pulling back a little bit and it's also penny stock, but we can look at this one. So lower price stock here doesn't really have too many orders. There's not a lot of people trading it. There's 100,000 shares, sell order here. So actually what you have are sell orders. So this is interesting. You have sell orders lined up. So if we looked at the level two, we would see sell orders. 100,000 shares, sell order, 86 cents, another 50,000 shares at 90 cents, another 50,000 shares up here. So you just have sellers stacked up. But that's not algorithmic. That's just people that are selling. They just want to get out of the stock. DTSS, this is another one that was on our scans earlier. It didn't really move a whole lot. Probably doesn't have too much going on right now. But you compare a lot of sellers up there. So this is again, you see the depth of the market, you pull up your level two and you see, oh, look, there's a lot of sellers at 350 and 360. We're going to have to break through those levels before we're in good shape for the move up to four. So now let me show you my trade from today. So let me move this out of the way. So today was day four of my small account challenge here with Thinkorswim. And if I pull up my, let's see, my platform, you'll see the one trade I took was on A-L-L-R. So I made $277 today. I bought 2,500 shares and I sold 2,500 shares. So one entry, one exit made about 12 cents a share, 11 cents a share. Not bad, that's a decent little winner. It's actually a smaller green day relative to my other green days that I've had so far. So if we look at the challenge, this is day four. Day one was 398. Day two was 526. Day three was 518. Day four here, $277. Okay, metrics so far on the challenge. I've got 80% accuracy, which is good. Average winners, 468. Average loser, 154. Only one loser. So four winners, one loser. And $1700 a total profit goal is to grow the account to $25,000. So on A-L-L-R, this one popped up a little bit earlier. At the time, G-L-M-D was not in play. So I wasn't interested in G-L-M-D, but all of a sudden, A-L-L-R pops up right here. It squeezes up. And so the first thing I did, it pops up and I said, I know this stock, it's a 1.2 million share float. I was already watching it because it was already up quite a lot on the day. In fact, if we look at it from the previous day, this stock met our stock criteria just based on the fact that it was at $350 and was up now at $450. So 30% on the day, nice percentage change, low float. And so as it pops up, I said, I have to buy the first pullback. That's my micro pullback setup, which you guys can download. It's pinned to the top of the comments. So I got in right here, right there at just over $450, just over $450, $455. So we squeeze up, I let it pull back and I press the buy button right there. It squeezes up here to $460, $465, $470, $480, it tops up there at $480, which is almost $0.25 move from the entry, not bad. It dips down here, then it pushes higher up to $490, comes up just under $5, can't quite break $5, and it pulls back. I end up locking up $0.11 per share average total profit for $277. Now, what gave me the conviction, take this trade. First, I pull up the chart and I see this setup forming right here. Then, I pull up the level two. And when I pull up the level two, I'm looking for buyers. And when I see other orders going through green on the tape, that's what I'm thinking to myself, all right, this stock is moving. Other traders are jumping in right now. That's exactly what I want to see. That tells me other people like the stock. And that indicates momentum. Now, if I pulled up the level two and all I saw were sellers, or I saw a huge sell order on the ask, would I take the trade? Absolutely not. Level two is that final step. You've got to do step one to find the stock of trade. Step two is looking at your chart. Step three, pull up level two and execute the trade. If the level two doesn't check out, you don't take the trade. If there's a big seller there, if there's a lot of sell orders going through on the tape, a lot of red orders, there's no entry. There's no setup. It's not that there's no setup. There might be a technical setup, but the trade is invalidated based on the level two, based on the depth of the market. So in that case, I wouldn't take the trade. But in this case, it pops up and although it dips for a second, immediately another round of buyers came in and it starts surging higher. So the second it starts squeezing higher, as soon as I see that green on the tape, boom, I'm jumping in. That's what I'm looking for. So my eye is looking at the ask right here and I'm looking at this right here for green. So GLMD is, of course, moving more actively now. This is up 350%. So right now you're seeing white. Those are orders going through the spread. You're seeing and red. A little small burst of green, but this is not convincingly green right here. Now, and there's a 14,000 share seller, 13, 12 on the ask, 11, 9, 8, 8, 8. So it's starting to get bought up, 7, 6, and it breaks and it pops up 10 cents a share. Now, if this was also lining up with a technical entry, there might have been a trade right there, right? Now, I don't take a trade based just on level two and I don't take a trade based just on the chart. It has to be a combination of both, right? The level two supports the chart pattern. The chart pattern supports the level two. So in a sense, it's kind of like when we talk about multi timeframe alignment, where we like to see the one minute and the five minute are both giving a positive signal. It's sort of similar here with this where we want to see that technical setup, but we also need to see that the level two supports it. So right here, you're coming up to 1830 and as we come up to 1830, you can see that red order. That says L-U-L-D, which is limit up, limit down. What that means is that this is the circuit breaker price. The price cannot go higher than this within a five minute period. It cannot go up more than 10% in five minutes. So it's pinned at that price. It can't go higher. Now, what could happen is the price moves up and it did. It just moved up to 1861 and just in an instant, look at how much that dropped, all the way down to 1760, right? So this is where things can get a little crazy when you're trading something that's volatile and something that I've learned, gosh. So that was that candle right there, that drop that we just saw. Something that I've learned is that, and there's this expression, there's a couple more false breakout candles here and here. There's an expression that nobody asks where a taxi goes after they get out, but when you get out of a stock, you can't stop thinking about where it went. So as the stock goes higher and higher, I traded it earlier and made some money on it, and it's gone higher and I'm thinking, oh, gosh, I could have should have would have held it, gotten back in, but then you look at this and you see, well, but what if I'd gotten in right there? Boom, instant loss. What if I'd taken that trade, instant loss? What if I'd taken that trade, instant loss? I try to remind myself that once a stock has proven itself untrustworthy through either the technical price action here or through the price action that you're seeing on the level two, then unfortunately, at that point, you simply can't take any more trades on it because you're asking for trouble. This right now is halted up. So it's going to be halted for a period of five minutes. It's showing 1882, haul time, haul price. Now it's showing an $18 resumption, 1835. So this could resume at 17. It could resume at 19. We don't know. Unfortunately, with a stock that this volatile, you're subjecting yourself to a lot of risk. And this is, at the end of the day, the goal of a trader. Minimize your risk. Try to make profit while minimizing risk. So GLMD today for me in the small account challenge, unfortunately, it was too expensive, even from the beginning of the day. So when I took my first trade on ALR, GLMD at that time was not in place. So that trade on ALR was pre-market. And at that time, GLMD was pulling back as you could see right here. But I did take a trade on GLMD actually right here as it curled up pre-market. And then there was another trade I took on in this area, which was nice. But the thing about it was, I was trading in my main account where, of course, I have more buying power. In my small account, I was like, realistically, how many shares can I afford? And I just thought to myself, I'm better off focusing on stocks that are, you know, $2, $3, $4 a share than trying to trade something that's 7, 8, 9. And then once it got higher up, I just said, no, there's just too much risk. Sometimes you look at a chart like this and in hindsight, you're like, wow, look how clean that is. Although to be honest, even when I look at this, it doesn't look that clean when you see these candles here. You see, whoa, I could have really screwed up pretty badly because these candles are huge. But anyway, sometimes you'll get a chart and you set you switch it to a 15-minute time frame or something like that. And you're like, wow, this thing just basically went straight up. I can't believe I didn't hold it longer or this and that. But again, I'd encourage you to focus your strategy on quick entries. Get in, get green, get out. Don't overstay your welcome and remember to pay yourself. Once you start getting the feel of level two and the best way to get a feel for it is to practice a lot. You want to practice trading in a simulator, just get in, get out, get a ton of experience. You could be trading some of these stocks all day long in a simulator, gaining experience. But once you start to see some of these patterns, you see that big seller and then you watch to see it get bought up. It goes from 20,000 shares to 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, and all of a sudden you're like, whoa, here we go. This is it and there it goes. And now it's like things are really connecting. And that's when it gets so exciting. So I really hope that this in-depth guide has been helpful for you. If it has, I hope you hit that thumbs up. I hope you are subscribed to the channel for more episodes about trading strategy just like this. And so you can stay tuned to see how I progress with this small account challenge with Thinkorswim today's day four accounts up $277. I'm making profit, still a ways away from 25,000. But that's the goal. I can't wait to get there. But I have to focus on a quality setups and using every tool that I have to reduce my likelihood for risk and loss and increase my odds of success. So again, thank you guys for tuning in. I hope you download the small account challenge collection that I have. You've got the micro pullback PDF, the stock selection PDF, and my Thinkorswim layout. So check those out and I'll see you for the next episode here real soon. Oh, remind you as always that trading is risky. My results aren't typical. So manage your risk, take it slow. I'll see you back here for the next upload real soon.