# 46. The ONLY Pattern I’m Trading for BIG Winners 💥 Day 2 | Small Account Challenge
# id=iIC62xnblLc (whisper base.en)

Today is day two of my brand new small account challenge where I'm trading in a cash only account using finger swim. And in today's episode, I'm going to update you on my progress. I'm going to share with you the profits from today, second green day in a row, which is great. So the account is growing and I'm going to answer a question that was asked to me. A trader said in the comments, Ross, if you're only going to take one set up and you're trading on a small account, what would the one set up be? So I'm going to expand on the strategy that I laid out in episode one yesterday today with a in depth step by step guide to the only setup that I want to trade during this small account challenge. Listen, at the end of the day, with this challenge, because I'm in a cash only account, I really can only take one trade each day. So I've got to make those trades count. Now, there's a story about someone who is learning to play poker. And she asked her brother what hand she should play. And her brother said, only play these hands. And he gave her a list of like three or four. And she said, wait a second, I'm seeing other people playing all these different hands. And he said, yeah, they've been doing it for a long time. They know what they're doing. You're a beginner. You have to focus on the hands that have the highest probability of working. And that's exactly the way I'm approaching this small account challenge. While there are dozens of different setups that I'm familiar with, and I could trade any of them for this challenge, I need to make every trade count. So let's go ahead and jump onto the screen share. I've got a slide deck. We've got a lot going on here. I've got my trades on my main account today, $11,000 in the main account. I've got $526.76 in the small account. So when we do that progress report, you'll see where the small account is. It's growing, which is great. And of course, we've got our white board so we can take some notes. So let's go ahead and go full screen here on the slide deck and go over the topics for today's class. I'm going to start by presenting the only setup that I think is appropriate for trading in this small account challenge. I'm then going to share with you today's trade the one mistake that I made. And I'm a little bit frustrated about it. My progress report of where the small account challenge stands now at the end of day two, and number five, my goal for tomorrow. So what I'm actually going to do here is I'm going to jump into a bigger slide deck. This is a this is a slide deck that is coming up on, let's see how many slides do we have in this? 1700? Yeah, it's a pretty heavy slide deck. Barely runs on most browsers, unless you've got a super computer because it's so huge. But this is my full length slide deck for day trading, strategies, and scaling. This is part of the Warrior Pro membership for those of you guys who are at Warrior Trading. And what I like to do is I like to show just a little tidbit of this, for those of you guys on YouTube who are trying to piece things together and figure out the right way to approach trading. I know a lot of you guys, you're very new, you're early on, and you want to lay a solid foundation. Some of you guys may have already made some beginner mistakes. And one of the things I can tell you right now is that I'm in a position where I've worked with literally thousands of traders over the years, and I can tell you with pretty good certainty that there are two leading causes of failure. The first reason that most day traders lose money is because they don't have a strategy at all. They come into the market kind of shooting from the hip, they try a little of this, a little of that. They hear someone say something about something on Reddit or on Twitter. Next thing you know, they're buying some shares, they're holding it. Maybe they're trading using their phone. They don't really know what they're doing. And these are usually traders who have a little bit of money, you know, to kind of mess around within the market, but usually what happens is they end up losing it and they give up and then they're left with sort of a bad taste of the market. And I think that those failures are avoidable if you realize number one, that success in trading like success in anything else takes hard work. Now, I know that it feels kind of funny because you could sit here and you could be kind of, you know, punching the keys on your keyboard, you're jumping in and out. Next thing you know, you're up a thousand, you're down a thousand. It doesn't feel like maybe hard work. It can look easier than it is, but the reality is being consistently profitable over the long term means that you have an edge. In order to have an edge, you've got to have a set of rules and a system and a process that you follow every single day. And if you don't follow it to the T, you will lose money. So the second group of traders that fail, they have a strategy. They've adopted a strategy, whether it's a strategy they've learned from me or a strategy they've learned from someone else doesn't really matter. They've got a strategy. But here's the problem. They fail to maintain their own discipline. They become their own worst enemy. They lose not because the strategy isn't a good one. It could be a great strategy, but they lose because they can't follow the rules. And I know how frustrating this is because I am someone who struggled to learn how to trade. I did not find success early on and I was my own worst enemy. My problem was that I was desperate because I didn't have another job when I was learning how to trade. This was during the Great Recession and sort of the recovery, but the market and the economy in rural Vermont where I was living was terrible. So my only source of income was making money from trading and every day, every week, every month that I fell short, the pressure was building and building and building. And under that pressure, I became desperate. I was grasping at straws. I couldn't become cool collected. I couldn't be patient. And I felt so frustrated because I felt that the people that were making the most money in the market were people that already had money. I couldn't understand why that was. And the secret is that once you have money, your mindset changes. You're no longer trading from a point of desperation. You're able to actually just simply follow the rules of the strategy because you've got the confidence of the conviction that this will work. So let me present this idea to you. Right now, you have 100 trades in your future. Let's just imagine this. You've got 100 trades in your future. And if you follow the strategy that, well, the strategy that I follow, for instance, I'm right about 68% of time. So I've got 100 trades in my future. And let's say, if I take all of those trades and my accuracy is 68%, I'll have 68 winners. Now, what I know about my winners right now is that my average winners are about $500. My average losers are about 250. So what we can do is we can do the math real quick. Let's find out exactly how much I'll make. So, and this is an example of what's coming in the future. So 500 times 68 is $34,000 in profit. And then 250 times 32 is $8,000 in losses. So 34 minus 32 is 26,000. So what I know is that I have, and this is an interesting way to look at it. I have already made that $26,000. That $26,000, it's like, I've already taken a job, I've gotten paid the deposit. This is the $26,000 contract. All I have to do now is have the discipline to do the job the right way to follow the process. If I follow the process, if I maintain 68% accuracy, this is coming my way. So if you think about it like that, it really puts the pressure on you just simply to follow the rules. Now, for this small account challenge, I am limited to the number of trades I can take to take 100 trades. Well, that might take 100 days, right? If I'm taking just one trade a day, it's going to take 100 trades. Now, there may be some days where I have enough buying power to trade two or three times, but most days I'm just going to be taking one trade a day. And so that also means that I have to be content with the fact that this is a marathon, not a sprint. The success is not going to come overnight. It's going to just take me showing up every single day, locking up consistent winter, consistent winter, consistent winter. So when we step back here and we look at the strategy that I'm going to be trading every single day, I want to show you and teach from this section of my strategies and scaling course on momentum trading strategies and specifically the technical long setup known as the first and the second pullback. The first and the second pullback is something that I highlighted and kind of mentioned in yesterday's episode that I said I would be trading the first and second pullbacks, particularly specifically micro pullbacks on the front side of the move when the MACD was positive. Those are the things that I said. So number one, micro pullback, micro pullback, number two on the front side, number three when MACD is positive, which is above the signal line, number four on stocks that meet all five criteria of stock selection. This is going to be my setup and specifically even more dialed in. I'm going to be focusing on stocks between 50 cents most likely and five dollars a share. The reason I'm going to do that is because with a small account, I need to focus on trading the stocks that have the ability to make the biggest percentage moves and where I can still buy a decent number of shares. So I said this is going to be sort of the highlight of what I'd be focusing on. And some of you guys had questions about well what exactly does this look like? And so in today's class, this is what I'm going to teach you in depth. I'm going to walk you through what this setup looks like and why I am saying this is the only setup that I want to trade during this challenge. Okay, so let me introduce you to this setup. And hey, by the way, if you watched yesterday's episode, you may have already downloaded these resources. But as a companion to episode one from yesterday and episode two today, I have a set of PDFs that you guys can download. In those PDFs, I have my micro pullback setup documented. So you can download that you can print it out and you can have the strategy right next to you on your workstation. I also included the PDF that breaks down my five criteria for stock selection. And I also included my thinkorswim layout. So if you want to use my same thinkorswim layout, you can go ahead and install it on your system. All you have to do is go to setup and then you go to load open shared item and you open the item that I shared. All right, so the link will be pinned to the top of the comments and in the description for you guys to download those resources. So now let's go ahead and go full screen on this slide. So this is a and again, this is a little preview of what it's like being a warrior pro member. So my entire curriculum is over 100 hours of educational content classes, much like this, they go into a lot of depth. So chapter eight, technical long set number eight, the first and the second pullback. The reason that I love this setup is because the psychology of what's happening here is a stock suddenly squeezes up. Now, why would a stock out of nowhere suddenly squeeze up? It's because it's got breaking news. There's a catalyst that's driving this stock higher. And in fact, of course, if we look at the trade from today, what you'll notice is that the stock that I traded was the ticker. It doesn't really matter the ticker. It just happened to be the stock today that gave us this nice move. But this is a stock that had breaking news. So basically out of nowhere, well, not it. I mean, the stock has news that comes out. And then based on that breaking news, it instantly squeezes up. Do you see how big these green candles are? So wouldn't it be a pleasure to be in a stock before it makes a big move like this? Traders always ask me this. They say, Ross, how can I find a stock like this before it makes the move? And I say, you can't because you don't know which stocks are going to come out with breaking news. The only people who know are insiders. And of course, they're not allowed to trade on that information. But this is what we can do. We can search the market in real time for stocks that are starting to move up. And so what I say is that at a minimum, when a stock squeezes up more than 10% within five minutes, I want to get an audio alert. I want to hear ding. And I want to come over to my computer and I will run to my computer. I turn my speakers up. I don't care if there's a dog in the way. I don't care if there's a toddler. I will knock over toddlers left and right to get to this computer to see what stock is hitting my scanner. Now I'm not really going to do that. Well, you don't know, I suppose, but I probably wouldn't do that depends on how many times I heard the ding. If I heard it three or four times, now I know a stock is up 20 30% pretty quickly. So what we had here this morning was this stock hits my scanner right here. So what's happening? The stock has come out with breaking news comes out with breaking news and immediately the market starts responding. Now, the beginning of this move is usually generated by high frequency trading algorithms, which are scripted to read stocks with news and they initiate buy orders. And then the market makers, as they see this influx of people buying, they take away their sell orders because they don't want to short a stock that's squeezing up. So now all of a sudden the sell orders are taken off the book. And now when the buy orders come in, well, who do you buy from? You got to buy higher and higher and higher and next thing you know, you have a stock that goes from 260 to $360 to $4 all the way up to $5 and higher in what can be a matter of minutes. And that's exactly what happened. When you have a stock that makes a really quick move like this, every time it dips right here, if the news is strong, those dips get bought up and more buyers come in. And so the psychology here is you have something that's really strong and there's a lot of traders like myself that want to try to figure out how can I buy this strong stock? Well, I don't want to just buy it at the highs. I got to wait for it to dip down just for a second. And so this little pullback here, this little pullback here, those become our buying opportunities. All right, so let's pull the slide deck back up here. So this is sort of your standard pullback pattern. It begins with one green candle. Sometimes it's two or three green candles and that's fine too, but at least at least one large green candle that squeezes up. Then you get a little bit of pullback, usually one, two, sometimes three candles that are pulling back. Now you can trade this on the 10 second, the one minute, the five minute, the 15 minute time frame, you can even trade it on the daily chart. But if you're looking for the fastest resolution and as an active trader, that's what I'm looking for, I'm going to focus on the one minute chart. And I'm also going to augment that by using the 10 second chart to look for those really quick fast pullbacks to jump in something that's moving really quickly. So what happens is you get this surge up and then you get a little bit of profit taking, maybe people that happen to be lucky and they were in before the move sell as the stock has moved higher. So you get a little bit of profit taking, maybe some short sellers decide, you know what, I'm going to short this. I don't know if this thing's really going to hold up. And then boom, you get that first candle to make a new high. This candle right here, I call a trigger candle, because what I'm looking for is the next candle to break the high. And that becomes my entry. If this candle breaks the low, then I would, if I was already in and it moved up and then dropped, I would stop out at the low of this candle. So the high is my entry, the low is my stop. Now, if this candle does not make a new high, I don't buy, I just keep letting it pull back. And ultimately, if it pulls all the way back down and it retraces the entire move, then it's no longer in play. But if it pulls back, usually like this or not more than the whole move, that I'm looking for that first candle to make a new high. And as soon as it makes a new high, I buy with a stop at the low and my profit target is a retest of the high a day. Now, I have some details here that I share more with our members. I'll go into a lot of detail with that. But what I want to show you here is an animation of what this looks like. So this is the first candle starting to squeeze up. The stock now has breaking news. It's hitting our scanners. And the scanners that I use, if I back this up, you'll see these are the scanners I'm using right here in the corner. So this is powered by day trade dash. This is the software that I've developed. So I have a development team that's built this out for me. And these scanners are searching the market in real time for stocks that meet my criteria for having the potential to make this big move. So those five criteria are broken down in the PDF download that you guys can grab. So we get the first candle squeezing up, you get your second candle squeezing up. All right, this thing is strong. That's exactly what we wanted to see. We got the third candle, and then we get a little pullback. Okay, that's fine. Now, of course, we didn't want to buy it at the very top of these candles and chase it. We want to wait for that pullback. The reason that you don't want to chase is that if you're getting into the very top here, what's your logical stop? The low of the last candle, the low of the current candle, usually it's pretty far away. And so the problem there is you can't really manage your risk. When we're trading, we always have to ask the question first of how much am I risking and how much do I stand again? What most beginner traders get wrong is they're thinking only about profit, not about risk. So they're just like, oh, I'm going to jump in this thing. This is how much you could go up. And then once it suddenly starts dropping, they're not prepared for how deep red they're going and they panic. They freeze during the headlights and they hold and they hope. Now, don't feel bad if you've done this because I've done it myself as well. It's what almost all the inner traders do. And what it ultimately is all coming from is emotion. We've got the fear of missing out FOMO that causes us to capitulate and chase a move and buy at the very tippy top. And then we have the fear of taking a loss. And the fear of taking a loss does something interesting. When you're afraid of taking a loss, you would think the quickest thing you would do is just sell. But you wouldn't and you don't, because when you sell the loss becomes real, as long as you keep holding, there's always hope that maybe it'll turn around. And so what a lot of us end up doing is we get in way too high, it starts dropping and we start praying. We hold, we hope, we say some prayers and it goes even lower. And then maybe we buy more shares because we're like, well, if I add more down here and it comes back up, well, you know, kind of offset the first loss with the win from the lower entry. And then it goes lower and lower and lower. And now you've just made the loss bigger and bigger and bigger. And so that's called averaging down, which is a terrible strategy for most beginner traders. So what we instead want to do is we want to watch the stock squeezing up, but ask ourselves, where can I get in where I'm managing my risk? And so as it starts to pull back, I start watching the high of these candles. And I say, I check the high. And the way I check the high is on my software right here, I can actually mouse over a candle. And when I mouse over a candle, I can see right in here, specifically right here, what, sorry, what was the high of the last candle? So as I mouse over, I'm seeing the high of the last candle. So 365, 370, 361, 362. And so I look at that, I mouse over and I say, Oh, okay, the high of the last candle is, you know, is X. So whatever it happens to be, let's say it's, you know, 370. And the low here, let's say it's 350. So if that was the case and I bought right here, my stop would be 20 cents a share. Sorry, the 20, 20 cents a share would be my stop. And that could work as long as I had the potential to make 40 cents a share in profit. One of the things that I'm a big advocate of is trying to get a two to one profit to loss ratio. So whatever you're going to risk, you have the potential to make twice that in profit. That feels like that to me is worth the risk, just logically. I'll risk 100 to make 200. I don't want to risk 100 to make 50. That's kind of dumb. But I mean, unless you're going to be right 99% of time, but trading doesn't work like that. Even some of the best traders out there are probably only right 70, maybe 80% of time. I'm right 68% of time. And I've been doing this for a while. I mean, I could get better, but 68% is kind of where I've been. So anyways, in this case, we're going to pull back a little bit more. Now it's interesting here is we have a small green candle. So the low is down here and the highest down here. Now, what's interesting here is that this is not a it's not a red candle. So if it was a red candle, we would think, okay, we're still selling off, but it happens to be a green candle. Although it's a green candle, it didn't make a high versus the previous candle. So right now we're kind of waiting. And when the next candle moves up, if it goes red, then we would just be going lower and we wouldn't buy. But the second this candle right here breaks this high, that is your entry point. So back up, so pulling back trigger candle entry, max loss, the max losses at the low, the entries at the high profit target is at the high a day. And then of course, that's what you want to see. And that's what usually happens. So the psychology behind this is that a lot of traders are watching this as it's hitting the scanner, they're letting it pull back and they're waiting for that first candle to make a new high in a really hot market. When you get good at trading, you'll actually start to recognize that you can buy some of these down at the bottom here if this corresponds to an area of psychological support, such as let's say $5. So $5. And let's see the first candle to make a new high is you know, $5.10. If you got in close to $5, you're getting in really close to what we call psychological support. So one of the things that you're going to learn is that a lot of stocks, especially lower priced stocks, trade with a great deal of respect to half dollars and whole dollars. And so I'm going to draw some lines here. So this will be three, then we'll do 350, and then we'll do four, and then we'll do four, oops, and then we'll do 450. It doesn't have to be perfect. And so three, 350, four, and 450. So what you'll notice, when you're actually looking at the depth of the market, when you look at market quotes, and you could do this, you could do it on thinkorswim, if you use thinkorswim, or you know, you're using different software, that's fine too. But you look at your level two, and what you'll notice is that usually, and this is actually a stock that's currently straddling, the half dollar, but usually there's a lot of orders clustered right around the half dollar, right around the half dollar, and then again, up around the whole dollar. And so what it looks like is at these levels, right in here, you have a lot of people with buy and sell orders, and then there's not a lot of orders in between. And then there's a lot of orders, and then there's not a lot. And then there's a lot of orders, and then there's not a lot. And then there's a lot. Why is that the case? This is the case because people tend to just put profit target orders around these psychological areas. So they're like, they're in it three or whatever, and they're like, oh, I'm just gonna put my sell order up here at 350. And then someone else is like, I'm gonna put another sell order at four. Someone else is like, I'm gonna put another sell order at 450. And then what happens is as the stock starts squeezing up, it starts moving up, and we'll just do like candles. We start squeezing up, and then when we hit this level, because there's so many sell orders here, what's gonna happen? Typically we're gonna pull back, and that's gonna create that micro pullback. Now, if there's enough buyers, people will buy up this first candle to make a new high, and there'll be enough buying volume in this candle to break through that wall. So when the stock first starts popping up right here, usually it's on lighter volume, but volume increases. And then we see light volume on the selling, and then we see higher volume come in as the next candle moves higher. Then we push up usually to the next half dollar, where, once again, we do the same thing. We pull back just for a moment, so we have higher volume, and then we pull back for just two candles, usually two, maybe three, and then we get a surge of volume as we break through this next level, and then we come back up to here. And so most stocks will trade in these kind of waves, and as they move higher, the volume increases. The volume is increasing because more and more traders are getting excited and seeing this opportunity. But at a certain point, a stock may start to come back down. Maybe as it turns out, there's a huge seller up here. It tries to break, it's not able to hold, and then it drops back down. And at this point, the trend breaks. We went from doing this sort of nice stair step up pattern where we're stepping up and up and up to having our first step down. And when we have that first step down right here, the trend is broken, and this is the place to have your final exit. If you were still holding a partial position. One of the things that's really nice is that something else happens when the trend breaks. So as these stocks are moving higher, we've got our nine moving average right here, which is underneath the candle. The nine moving average, your nine EMA. This is the average price of the stock over the last nine candles. So it's plotted as a point, and that's connected into a line. And so as a stock is moving higher, the average price over the last nine candles moves higher as well. So the average moving average line moves up. But what we also have here is our 20 moving average. And so our 20 moving average is always a little bit slower. It's a little bit slower behind because the 20 moving average, 20 EMA, is the average price over the last 20 candles. And so what we know is that when the moving averages are moving apart, the nine is moving up quickly and the 20 is a little slower. Usually it's because the price is moving fast. But when these moving averages converge back together here, usually it means we're getting a correction. And so we have an indicator that we use called MACD. And the MACD is called the moving average convergence divergence indicator. It's an acronym and that's what it stands for. And so when the MACD is moving apart, it is telling us that the moving averages are moving apart and the stock is moving up quickly. And when the MACD starts compressing and coming back together, that usually tells us that the trend is ending. So one of the things that I've learned is that the highest probabilities of success trades for me occur when the MACD is positive, when a stock is on the front side of the move, the front side is before the MACD crossover. And when I'm buying these micro pullbacks. So this right here is what I absolutely love. And this is the only setup that I wanna trade during this challenge. So now we jump back onto the screen here and you can see this gives you a good sense of what this pattern looks like. You've got the first pop and during this first pop, how do we even know the stock is moving up? Well, the way we find it, of course, is with our scanners. Where did our scan go? So it opens up here. So we've got this scan. So like right now, for instance, this stock CVKD is hitting a scanner. And when we see this hit the scanner, we can see the timestamp, we can see the symbol, the price, the volume, doesn't have much volume. The float, which is the number of shares available to trade. The relative volume today, which tells us how much volume it has today compared to normal, one means it's normal average. Anything higher than that is above average. So when we scroll down or we look at something like this, you got EGIO. This is a stock that had relative volume ratio of 51. So high, high volume relative, 46 million shares of volume. It's up, oh gosh, how much is it up on the day? It was up 171% unbelievable. Wow, look at this thing. So this is something that clearly made a really big move. We can get zoomed in on the one minute chart. And you know what? That right there is the setup. So see, this is the MACD right down here. This is our MACD, our moving average convergence divergence indicator. And it opens right here as the stock starts to pull away. When the MACD is open, when the volume is first increasing, this is the front side of the move. That first pullback is almost always the strongest. So I buy the first pullback, that's a second one, that's a third one. And then once you get this rejection up here, that's when the trend shifts. MACD crosses over and now the easiest setups on the stock are over. While in this case it did go higher, which is great to see, these setups are gonna be more difficult. The first move, that sort of surprise move, is almost always the cleanest. In a really hot market, you can get second and third moves higher than that work. But again, for most beginner traders, you're gonna find more success focusing on the front side of the move at the very beginning of the move and really do everything you can to avoid over trading. So now let's jump back into our slide deck for one second. And I'm gonna go full screen because I actually know what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna pull up a live trading archive for you. Okay, so this is a live archive. This is an actual recording from my real money trading account. And it's a short one, but this is gonna be a nice example of this pattern. So what you can see here is the stock has squeezed up, it's pulled back, we're coming back up, and we're on another pullback. The MACD, front side of the move, the MACD is open, the MACD is above the signal line, the signal line is orange. So once it crosses over, don't wanna take any trades. We can see the volume has been increasing, which is great. This is a stock that has a float of 326,000 shares. It's currently up 90% on the day. It's got 1.25 million shares of volume. The relative volume is 1,646 times higher than normal, and this is a stock that has a news catalyst. So it meets all of my criteria for being the type of stock to trade. All right, so now let's go ahead and start this video here. So here we go. All right, so I've got my starter position. And this is a position where I took my starter at 751 and it was right at the half dollar. So as the stock started breaking over the half dollar, I took my entry at 51. So this is again based on psychological support and resistance. As a beginner trader, you probably wouldn't take this trade until you get the first candle to make a new high. While you would pay a higher price, what you get for that is confirmation. When you get in early, you don't have confirmation. And so you might end up being wrong. In that case, I got in at 51 and I got back out at 52. Now, that's only a one cent profit of $25 on 2,500 shares. So for my small account challenge, that's not something that I wanna do. Because let's look at that trade for a second. That trade cost how much? 2,500 shares have $7.50 a share. That's a $15,000 position. So I just blew my one trade of the day for $25. No. So I can't afford to get in to anticipate that something's gonna work. I need to get in when I know that this setup is going to work right now. So I have to be a little bit more patient. Okay. So it dips down again. And we can see this sort of basing out area right here. I zoom in on the chart. And these charts are inside day trade dash. So the software that I'm using. And it looks like I've gotten back in here at 51. So I'm back in at the same price. And right there, the first candle just made a new high. And we go up to, look at that. That is a, oh my gosh. It doesn't get much better than that guys. That is a fantastic trade. This is what we love to see. I wish I could have gotten a trade like that in the small account today. So I'm currently up 75 cents per share. And it happened almost instantly. Did you see how fast that happened? So let's back that up again. Oh, I love seeing these examples. When they're clean like that, it's just so great. So I end up, it drops down to 7.30. So the low of my, of this pullback is $7.30. That means I'm risking about 20 cents per share on this trade. I jump back in, it pauses for a second. I get back in, I'm in at 51. And there's 67, there's 72. And almost in an instant, now the price is moving higher. Something that is important to know is that when I'm in a trade, you know where my eye is? If I had a laser on my eyeball, it would be right here. This is where my eye doesn't really look. It's a normal circle. Well, it's kind of like an old football shape. Well, you know what an eye looks like. I'm looking right here. And then I also glance right here at the tape. So the chart is always gonna lag just a smidge behind the actual quotes because the quote happens first. The order goes through first and then the chart reflects it. So if you're trying to figure out chicken or the egg, it's the level two is first. So it's just gonna be always a hair faster because that's the raw data. And then the chart uses that to create the visual representation. So we hit 73, and I'll play this again. We hit 85, we hit 88. And what we see is we're seeing these green orders going through. That tells us that other people are buying this stock and they're buying at the ask. The reason these orders are in green is because they're buying at the ask price. When orders are in red, it means they go through at the bid price. So right here, you had a couple red orders that went through and then you've got some white orders that went through between the spread. And then you've got some green orders and a little bit of red. Couple of people taking profit at 68, 70, 75, that's fine. Then it goes higher, 88, 96, or sorry, yup, there's 96, there's eight dollars. It breaks eight and now as it breaks eight, you see some profit taking. So people are taking profit at 8.19. So now I put my order out at 8.23. I say, you know what? I'm gonna go and take some profit and I'm hitting the bid. That's gonna be sort of an easy way to sell. And I take a little profit there at 8.26 and 8.23. And this ends up being a couple thousand dollars a profit on a $15,000 trade. I mean, this is a solid 10% or 12% gain. And look at how fast that is. So my philosophy, and this is sort of, it may be interesting for you that when I learned how to trade, I didn't have a lot of disposable income. I had my trading account and that was my most valuable asset. So I couldn't afford to just park that trading account in 10 different stocks and wait and hope that maybe one of them would have breaking news. I had to be very thoughtful about how I use my account. And so what I would do is I would patiently wait for this kind of setup. And I think of myself as sort of being in the tall grass is like a sniper. So I mean, I'm just sitting and I'm waiting, I'm waiting. And then when I see that perfect setup, boom, I strike. So now I'm using my whole account for that one trade. So I put the whole account into that trade for a very short period of time. Now some people are gonna say, Ross, that's a lot of risk. And it is, active trading is risky. But when you have a small account, the only way really to grow it is to use that account pretty aggressively. If you have a $1,000 account, you're saying, well, I'm only gonna put $100 into each trade, then this would be a $15 winner, right? You put the full $1,000 in the account to $150 winner. Now, what was my risk on this trade? We know that my risk on this trade was 20 cents per share. 20 cents per share times 2,500 shares is about $500 of risk. I was comfortable risking 500 and I knew if this worked, I had the potential to more than double what I was risking. And I did. In fact, the profit loss ratio on this trade ended up being closer to four to one. $500 of risk and almost $2,000 of profit. So this ended up being a really nice trade. I mean, it's a great example. And of course that's why I like using it because it's very easy to understand. So the first attempt, I sold break-even, but the second attempt worked. Now the problem is I can't take a bunch of attempts when I've got a cash account. Because when I run out of cash, I can't trade until tomorrow. Now, someone asked a question about this. They said, Ross, how do you deal with settled funds? Because one of the things that Thinkorswim will let you do is you could take a trade and you could sell it and then you could buy back another stock on the same day. Whoa. And that's only okay if you hold that second trade overnight. If you don't hold it overnight, then they call it trading on unsettled cash and they'll penalize you and restrict you. So I actually did that without realizing it. Because I was waiting for them to say I was out of buying power. So I got the email actually today. I got this email from Charles Schwab and it says, where is it? It says, urgent, your trading has been restricted. So it says my trading, we've restricted your trading to trading with only funds available. And I'm like, well, that's fine. And I asked them, I said, what's gonna happen? Because I sent an email yesterday because I said, wait a second. I just used my buying power on the first two trades I took yesterday and then just to test out of curiosity, I put out an order and I put it below the bid. So this is a stock that's currently trading it, whatever. So I said, I'll just put a test order down here for 2,500 shares at like 327 and it accepted the order. So I was like, wait a second. If it's accepting the order, then they're allowing me to trade on margin. So I was confused about whether or not my account had margin. Now, if I place this, well, no. So now it's not saying I don't have enough buying power to place that order, which is right. So now my account is restricted to cash only. And that's fine, that's actually how I prefer it. Although I guess as it turns out, if I wanted to take one day trade and then take one trade and hold that second trade until tomorrow, I could do that. But then I would have to do that every day and hold overnight because of unsettled cash. So I'm not going to do that. So now my account is back to being more of a standard cash account. So this is another example here of the same pattern. So you've got the stock that squeezes up as you could see right here. One, two, three, four, five green candles in a row. The volume is increasing. This all start at seven a.m. with a stock having breaking news. Then we pull back for a second. Right here, we get a little bit of a dip and then boom, we get that surge higher. So that right there is the micro pullback. Again, if you guys download the PDF, you go print it out, you could have it next to your desk and then you also will get the stock selection PDF. So you can use both of those to help you find the right type of stocks and understand this setup in sort of written detail. Because this setup doesn't work if you're not trading the right type of stocks. The most important way to manage risk is to choose the strongest stocks to trade every single day. When you trade low quality stocks, you'll take unnecessary losses. So part of my strategy and my process is to number one, make sure I'm trading stocks and meet my five criteria of having the potential to squeeze up 20, 30, 40% or higher. And we did get that of course again today. So now here is another example. First candle to make a new high. You get this stock that's kind of grinding and then finally starts to pull away. It pulls back, that's our entry. Now one thing that I'll note about this candle is this is a candle right here, this green one. It's called a dragonfly doji. So a doji candle is a candle where the open and the close occur at the same price. So a typical doji looks like this. The open and the close are at the same price but the price went up and went down inside that candle. A gravestone doji looks like this. It's got that kind of tall upper candle wick. A dragonfly doji looks like this and a long legged doji looks like this. These are all candles of indecision. But what's interesting is that this candle right here sends a different message than this candle. So let me show you kind of an example. We've got the price, let's just say squeezing, well, we'll say we've got the price declining. So we've got the price declining down here like this. And then all of a sudden we see this candle right at the bottom. That bottoming tail is what we call it. That communicates strength. That tells us that although it's sold off, buyers came in and they bought up the dip. And that means the reversal may already be starting. So then the first candle to make a new high just continues that trend. On the inverse, if you have a stock that's really, really strong and at the very top, you have a gravestone doji. That's indicating selling pressure pushed it down and the reversal is already beginning coming back down. So the shape of the candle matters and it also matters the context that the candle occurs in. So one of the things I think you'll recognize is that learning to read these individual candlestick shapes. And I have other classes certainly for warrior pro members but I have some here on YouTube as well that talk about how to read candlestick charts starting from zero. But what I share with you is that learning to read candlestick charts is not unlike learning a language. These different candlestick patterns communicate a different message and different sentiment. And so the best way to learn this language, just like learning any other language is to immerse yourself in the culture and the community of people speaking the language. I speak the language of the financial markets. I can translate what I'm seeing right here to what it means. And that's what I do with my market commentary every single day while I'm trading. Now, I know some of you guys have already joined or you're trading and are members. Some of you guys are currently doing a two-week trial. But I will also post a link in the description to the top of the comments where you guys can do a two-week trial so you can listen over my shoulder while I'm giving you my market commentary while I'm actively trading. So my trade today that I took, I took that in real time. So everyone that was tuned in was able to hear me take that trade. I said exactly where I was getting in, what I liked about it, where I was getting out, and so on and so forth. And I do that with my main account as well. When I'm trading in my main account, the P&L is always right here so you can watch in real time as I'm making money or as I'm losing money because of course, easy come, easy go. Now we could look at dozens of A-quality setups but I also wanna show you a couple of setups that we have to avoid. So this right here is a stock that squeezes up initially. It has that first spike, but what happens? It sells off on the first candle, okay. But, ooh, higher volume selling. So there's really a lot of people selling. The second candle, another high volume selling candle. The third candle, another high volume selling candle. And now at this point, we look at this and it's like, there's just in total a lot more sellers than there are buyers. The buyers were nothing compared to the selling. So when that happens, the volume profile is sending a message. It's communicating weakness. And so even though the new sounds great, they've got a partnership with Volkswagen, da da da da. Well, the price action doesn't support it. And so we have to not get too caught in a bias of thinking the fundamental catalyst sounds really great when the price action's not supporting it. We wanna see high volume green candles, right? That tells us the buyers are coming in and then low volume selling. That's what we need to see. This is another example. Light volume move up initially, high volume selling. And so there is no trade here. There's no setup. We didn't get a first candle to make a new high. By the time we would have considered it, at that point, the volume is telling us it's a red flag. So that, again, is these charts are giving very clear buy or sell signals. If you're currently trading and you're losing money, the odds are you do not know yet how to read these signals. They're right there, but you're not seeing them. So you're buying right into a sell signal, but you don't see it. Or you're selling right into a buy signal, and you're missing an opportunity. So once you train your eye to look at these different things, to look at the MACD, to look at the volume profile, look at the shape of the candle sticks, that's when the rubber meets the road and it gets exciting. But early on, it's really helpful to have a mentor who's got a decade or more of experience who can share with you this is what I'm seeing right now. So that's what I do. Now again, if it's not for you, it's not for you. It's not going to be for everybody. But my goal is to try to help translate what I'm seeing in the market and to filter down my decade plus of educated intuition into a language that you can understand. So it makes it just simpler. And that's what it's all about. How can I make this simpler for a beginner who's just getting started? This is another example where high volume buying, but then even higher volume selling, and then low volume on the bounce back up. So it's like these setups don't work. Whereas this high volume, that's looking better. The MACD is positive. That's what you like to see. Okay, so now let's jump out of this slide deck here. And let's start to talk about the trades from today. So let's see, so number one, I was gonna go over today's trade. All right, so MNPR. So you can see my accounts up $526.76, that's a great day. MNPR, this stock that came out with breaking news this morning. So I'm gonna click on this. We've got a couple more headlines that have come out during the day, but this will show me the timestamp of that first headline. So it's right here at 8 a.m. Announces positive early human clinical data validating the tumor targeting ability for MNPR 0101 ZR. Okay, this is obviously a biotech company. So which is important to note, because pharmaceutical companies, these biotech companies, these are the types of stocks that can make really big moves. This is what we like to see. These small cap companies usually are doing research and development, they're essentially being funded by the public markets, investors who are buying into the company and hoping that they come up with a cure for something significant enough that one of the big pharmaceutical companies either buys or licenses, whatever they've created. So when these companies have news, it is not impossible for them to go up 100, 200, 300% in one day. In fact, today it went up over 100%. And right now we've got three stocks, four stocks up over 50% today. I mean, this is some solid momentum. All right, so I saw the stock first as it hit my stock scanners. Now I had already taken a number of trades today before 8 a.m. when this news came out in my main account. And I had my first trades of the day in my main account, unfortunately I went red, about $3,000. And then I recovered that loss and went from red to green and got myself green at about $8,000. So I was now in the green in my main account and I was like, all right, let's put that on the side for a second and I'm gonna start looking for an opportunity for the small account. So when this first hit the scanner right here, I pull it up and it's squeezing. Immediately it's squeezing up and I pulled up the level two and I was like, all right, this is a stock that has breaking news and is moving right now. So this is the, it's kind of a narrow view, but when I'm in my main account, I'll show you what this looks like. So down below I've got my left monitor, or it's on my bottom monitor, I have it like this. So I pull up MNPR and then I type it in here as well. So MNPR and then all I have to do is click the buy button. So on this one, what I ended up doing was, I already had set my time and force to extended hours because I knew I was trading pre-market. And I clicked 2,500 shares. I then scrolled right here and I clicked, I pressed the control button. So it changed from a stop order to a limit order. And I clicked once, one click and my order sent. Now at that moment that my order sent and we'll go, let's see, let's do this thing's kind of confusing. So we're gonna do those are yesterday's trades. I'll show you that in a second, but let's go to today. All right, so I jump into this at, let's see, wow, you know what? That's amazing. I didn't realize I had that good of a fill. That's a really nice, you know what though? See, that's really strange because let's go to working orders. So does it say the order type? Let's see, because I did a point and click. So a limit, 351, right? See, that's a thing that's so weird. Okay, so my order at 327 did not fill. And then my order, oh no, that was from earlier. And when we were just testing that around, that was two o'clock. So yeah, that's so strange. So yeah, I put the order at 351. That was the top of my limit. And this is what's actually insane. So I said, I want to get in and I put the order at 351 and I filled at 334, which number one is incredible, but I was willing to pay up to 351. And I only filled, let's see, it wasn't, I don't think it was that many shares. I think I filled, it's 600 shares right here, 683 shares. So that's all that I filled. Why didn't I fill any shares at 38, 39, 40, 41, 42? 43, 44, 45, or 64, 7, 48, 49, or 50, or even 51? I don't know. So I don't get that. Cause what I did on this was I was on this right here and I pointed and clicked at the half dollar. It came, I was like, I'm going to get in for the break of the half dollar. And I said, I'm getting in for the break of the half dollar. My stop is 20 cents down. So I'm just honestly shocked that I got filled that low. And I'm annoyed that if I was going to get filled that low, why couldn't I've gotten all my shares? You know, and this is kind of the thing with, with Thinkorswim. Thinkorswim routes your orders through a wholesaler. And the wholesaler will sometimes give you funny fills. Sometimes they'll give you a partial fill at a great price, but it's only a partial fill. When you route through light speed, this is going directly to NASDAQ or ARCA or whichever route you choose. If you use LSPT, it's going to go through there. But I route directly to the market. So when I see a seller right there at 43 or whatever the price is, I can click that, I can buy directly from that seller. There's not a middleman in between my order. But at Thinkorswim, there's a middleman. And that's the payment for order flow business model. So the way it works is you've got, there's you and you say, I want to buy and your order goes through the wholesaler. And the wholesaler may say, oh, I got some shares for you. I'll send them right back to you. And then the market is over here. So there are times where your orders will never actually come out to the market because the wholesaler fills the order internally. It's an internal fill. So, you know, this is an example where I got the internal fill, but I didn't get the full order. And you know what, that cost me money. I should have had 2,500 shares. Well, I should have had it at 350. So I had 600 shares, 683 shares at 334. So I actually got 16 cents of price improvement, which on seven, nearly 700 shares is about $100 of price improvement. So I actually got $100 of price improvement versus what I would have gotten through that same order at light speed. But at light speed, I most likely would have filled my full position at 350. And then when it went up to four, which it did in an instant, I would have been able to sell that for $1,250 a profit, maybe more, $1,300 a profit. So that's kind of more like what I should have made today. And I was a little bit annoyed about this because so this is, and this highlights the one, what I was kind of gonna say was my one mistake today. So my one mistake here, well, actually, so there were sort of two issues. So I take the trade with the point and the click, but the problem is I got a partial fill. So then once I was up, I was like, oh, I want to sell. So I want to press Control Z, but I can't sell 2,500 shares because I don't own 2,500 shares. So now I'm having to grab my mouse and come up here and go, oh, gosh, dang it. What is this? 600, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, six. And you're doing it, trying to do it as quick as you can. It's 683, golly. And then I press sell. And you know what happens? I got a partial fill. So I got a partial fill. No, you know what I did? I typed 500 real quick. I was like, just take 500 off the table. I took 500 and I pressed sell bid. And then I had to come in and sell the last 183 shares. But that was kind of where I felt like I was fumbling. And it was a very quick trade. And what I've learned and what you'll learn as well, when you look at these types of stocks, is that when you have profit, it's important to pay yourself. Some of these stocks, in a matter of minutes, can go up or down 30, 40, 50% or more. So if you're not booking your profit, you can see that profit just disappear. And so in a small account, I was just like, as soon as I was up 20 cents a share, remember what I said yesterday? Once I'm up 20 cents a share, I want to take profit. If that takes three seconds, it takes three seconds. If it takes three minutes, okay, it takes three minutes. If as long as I don't hit my max loss. So I hit my profit target very quickly, but then I fumbled on the exit because of my partial fill. So that's gonna be something to monitor. Now, if we take a look, so that my one mistake, and I don't know if I'd really call it a mistake, but I did a point and click, and maybe I should have pushed it a little higher to 55 or 60 and gave myself a little more offset. Or maybe I should have done like two smaller orders instead of one bigger order. I don't know, I'll have to kind of test it out. But I got myself in a situation where I only used 683, well, I bought 683 shares. So 683 shares times $3.50 a share, right? So I'm at like $1,800 or whatever, a buying power. So, well, I guess a little bit more than that, but you get the idea, $2,000 of buying power. So I have more buying power and I wasn't able to use it today. And so then as it squeezed up, I was like, should I add back? And I said, you know what, don't add back. That was the setup. That was the trade. It's a bummer that, you know, you kind of fumbled it, but green is good. And if you get back in and then you take a full position at the top and you end up losing on it, you're gonna be pretty annoyed. So this ends up basically going straight up to 440, goes up to $5, goes up here, dips down and pops back up. And then I traded it in my main account as it was up here for the move higher and then ended up losing on it. So that was annoying too, because if I had traded it in my main account, I would have been in at the same price. I would have had a winner and it would have been more than $500. And then even though I would have lost on that trade, it wouldn't have been going negative. So that also highlights the challenge of trying to trade in, you know, two accounts at the same time, you sacrifice one for the other. And so that was a little bit of a challenge today and I was a little disappointed about that. And it kind of started to trigger me a little bit and I got frustrated. So I also have to be a little bit careful about sort of managing that risk. So now let's look at my account growth. So this is now my trader view report just for my thinkorswim challenge. So we're gonna look at the calendar. We're two days in. So we've got day one, day two, yesterday, $398 and 25 cents today, $526 and 76 cents. I'm up $925 on the week. Now if you recall, this account has 13,900, well, sorry, it started with $13,000. And then this is basically a profit. So I'm at $925 a profit. That's a little bit confusing. You know what? It's because this is taking out, maybe it's a fee. Anyways, it doesn't matter. So we've got $925 and let's look at the metrics. So my metrics right now, only two days in, average winner, $539, average loser, 154. I've taken a total of three trades. I have two winners and one loser, accuracy, 66.7%. I'm right on target. So it's kind of funny, it's only three trades. But I'm averaging 68% when you look at all of my metrics. So we're gonna pull up this tag here. We're gonna do thinkorswim, oops, toss, and we'll click check again. All right, so, you know, these are, I mean, it's not a lot to go on. I don't know, but we've got three trades here and a little bit of the metrics. Short hold time on the loser. One of the winners yesterday, I guess I must have held a little bit longer. And performance by day of the week, you know, trading between, or time of the day, between seven and eight a.m., that makes sense. Price and volume, you know, it's gonna be cheaper stocks. So that's probably gonna be to be expected. So this is where I sit here on day two. Now I wasn't planning on doing a recap today, exactly. I sort of thought I would, you know, I do a recap, maybe every couple of days and this and that, but because there were some questions about the strategy and exactly what setup I would be taking, I thought, well, I might as well, I might as well go ahead and do another recap here today. So this is episode two and my goal for tomorrow, well, $500 a day sure has a nice ring to it. So I wouldn't mind locking up $500 again tomorrow, but at the end of the day, I'm gonna focus on process and remind myself that profits are a byproduct. Now, if you haven't already checked out our downloads, pin in the top of the comments and link in the description is the Thinkorswim layout, my micro pullback strategy PDF and my stock selection PDF. So make sure you guys check those out. And if you haven't already subscribed to the channel, I hope you hit that subscribe button because I don't know if you know this, but usually when I upload a new video, when it first goes live, I like to respond and check those first comments. So if you hit the subscribe button and the notification bell, you will get the alert when a new upload goes live. And if you comment, I'll be most likely to respond to that comment in those first 15, 20, 30 minutes right after a video goes live. So make sure you guys hit that subscribe button. I hope you hit the thumbs up and I will see you for the next upload real soon. And I'll remind you, as always, that trading is risky, my results aren't typical, so manage your risk, take it slow, and I'll see you guys back here real soon.