# 47. The Simple Trading Strategy I'd Use If I Had To Start Over... 💥 DAY 1 | Small Account Challenge
# id=d1CRtDuUARQ (whisper base.en)

Today is day one of my brand new small account challenge, but for this challenge I'm going to do things a little bit differently. Unlike my last challenge I'm going to be trading in a cash only account. That means no leverage and no margin. And I'll be using Thinkorswim as my platform. This is a challenge that many of you guys have asked me to do because a lot of beginner traders come to the table with relatively small accounts and like to use commission-free brokers like Thinkorswim, Robinhood, Webull, and several of the others. So what I'm going to do in this class right now is I'm going to break down for you step by step the strategy that I will be trading during this challenge how I have customized Thinkorswim to get the most out of it for active trading and I will share with you my hot keys, my settings and my layout and I'm going to share with you how I made the determination to choose a cash account because there are several different account types that you can choose at Thinkorswim. So let's go ahead and jump in. We've got a full slide deck. I've got the whiteboard and I hope you are ready to learn. So I'm going to make this full screen here and we're going to dive right in. Now the first thing that I want to cover is the strategy that I'm going to be trading during this challenge. When I'm trading with my large account, I really trade the same strategy that I'm going to trade here with the small account. The only difference is with the small account, the guardrails are off. I can trade 100 times in one day if I want to. Of course, my account is large enough that I have the buying power to trade very aggressively. I could take a large position and in fact, today in my main account, I was up over $11,000 and that account has about $150,000 in it. So it's almost a 10% return, not quite, a 7%, 7% return in one day. All right, so let's pair that down. How am I going to lock up a 7% gain or maybe a 10% gain in a small account? If you've got a small account, whether it's $500 or $5,000 or $10,000, you know, getting that $500, $700, $1,000 winner is a big deal. And of course, you're limited in how many trades you can take. So each trade has to count. So this is the way I'm going to approach it. The small account strategy, day one, step one is in order to grow the account, I need big percentage gains. I need stocks that are going up not just 10%, 15%, 20%, but 50%, 75%, 100%, 200% or higher. And that's the type of stuff that I'm going to look for and those are the stocks I traded today. So I'll have to search each day for the largest percentage gamers. Now, there's a little bit of a myth that, well, gosh, if something's already up 50%, I'd miss the move. And I would disagree with you. I would say if a stock is up 50%, that tells you that a lot of people are very interested in this stock. And in fact, there's a much higher likelihood of that stock going up another 50% versus a stock that nobody's paying attention to going up 50%. And here's the thing with a small account. You can't afford to tie up your capital and wait around hoping that a trade that you're in is going to work. You need to focus on trading things that are moving right now. So as part of a day trading strategy, I'm going to be focusing each day on the leading percentage gainers and I'm going to actually prefer stocks that are lower priced because, well, I can buy more shares. You know, this is kind of the part of trading where, you know, you just sort of figure, let's say, you know, you want to buy 10,000 shares of a stock, well, at 70 cents, you might be able to do that, but at $7 is not going to happen, right? You've got $10,000 account, 70 cents, 10,000 shares. That's a $7,000 position. And this is the type of position where if this thing goes up to 80 cents, 90 cents or a dollar, you could end up making $3,000 a profit. Your account's up almost 50% in one day. That's actually, in a lot of ways, more obtainable than catching a stock going from $7 to $10. Not that that doesn't happen, but realistically, for this challenge, the lower priced stocks are going to be where it's at. So this is going to be my routine. Each day, I'm going to sit down, I'm going to pull up my scans, and I'm going to be looking for the top leading percentage gainers. If I see that those are stocks that are $20, $30 a share, I'm not even going to trade them. They're going to be too expensive. I won't be able to buy enough shares in order for it to make it worthwhile. Even in spite of the fact that Thinkorswim is commission-free, I really need to be able to maximize my buying power by trading stocks that have the potential to go up 20, 30, 40, 50%. And a $30 stock, I mean, if it goes to 33, it's up 10%, and I'm not going to get a full $3 a share on a day trade. Those of you guys who know my strategy, you know that it is my approach to focus on stocks, of course, that are trending up and to trade quickly. So I am jumping in and jumping out as the momentum is rising. So what I'm doing, essentially, is I'm looking for something that's already trending up like this, and I'm looking for these little pullbacks right here and right here to buy these dips for the next leg higher. But the risk with this strategy is that if you get in up here and suddenly it starts to reverse, you've got to get out quickly. And if you get in up here and you've got some profit, you want to make sure you pay yourself. So if you look at my metrics, one of the things that you'll notice, and this is based on over $13 million a gross profit, which by the way is not a typical result. I've been doing this for a very long time. But one thing that I'll say is that if you're an aspiring trader, the best time to have learned how to start trading was five years ago. So today you would possess the knowledge and the skill to be able to capitalize on the volatility that we're seeing right now. The next best time to learn is to start today. So that three years, four years, five years down the road, you have all of this accumulated knowledge, skill, and intuition just simply by absorbing and learning more about the market for a couple hours a day. It doesn't have to be a sprint where you're trying to learn everything overnight. But if you just keep incrementally learning a little bit more, a little bit more, and practicing and gaming experience, that is a real game changer. Now, one of the things that you'll notice here with my trades is that my average hold time is five minutes. So I really am getting in and out fairly quickly. These are not going to be long hold times, and that's not going to be any different for this small account challenge. But what naturally will be different for this challenge is I am limited in the number of trades that I can take each day. That's going to be the biggest limiting factor. And so for that reason, I'm focusing on these big percentage gainers. So each morning when I sit down, I'm going to of course pull up, think or swim, and I'm also going to pull up day trade dash. Day trade dash is the software that I've developed at Warrior Trading that our members use. And this software is scanning for stocks that meet the five pillars of stock selection. Now, if you're trying to use free software or, you know, you're not able to subscribe to this software right now, that's okay. What I will do is I will put a link and I'll pin to the top of the comments and link in the description where you can download a basically a bunch of resources. I'm going to give you my stock selection PDF. So you're going to know the five pillars of stock selection. If you want to plug that in to your own scanning software, that's fine. If you want to use what I have here, that's okay too. I'm also going to give you my think or swim layout. So the layout is saved and you can load it right into your instance of think or swim. So you just go to setup, you go to, let's see, it's open shared item. You're going to open the shared item and then you're going to paste in the link that I'm going to give you. And then you'll have the same exact layout as me and your hotkeys will be set up the same as mine and everything else. So that is going to be the link for all of those gifts will be pinned to the top of comments and linked in the description. Now for those of you guys that are trying to use free software, things like that, one thing to be aware of is that market data vendors have kind of like a monopoly on market data and they make everyone pay for that data. So the only way you can get really truly free scanners is if they're on delayed data. If it's a 20 minute delay, then you can get access to it for free. But how useful is data that's 20 minute delay? Well, I would say that if you're looking just for a list of the biggest percentage gainers each day, that would be okay if it's on 20 minute delay because by the time you pull up the chart and you're getting ready to start trading it, you at least know that this is a stock that's in play. If it's the number one leading percentage gainer to 10, 20 minutes ago, it'll probably still be that today right now at this moment. So I think that's that to scan that it's probably all right if you're using delayed data because that's all that you can get access to for right now. Okay, so step one is to find a stock that meets all five of my pillars or criteria for stock selection. From step one, I'm going to proceed to step two. Although I have dozens of different setups that I like to trade and a setup is a technical pattern. It's a candlestick chart pattern that gives me a very specific buy signal and an exit indicator or a sell signal. For this challenge, I really can only trade the highest probability setups. The reason is I'm going to be limited essentially to taking one trade a day. And there will be days that I don't take any trades because nothing perfectly lines up with my criteria. Like in the example of a stock that's the number one leading percentage gainer but is $30 a share. It is the most obvious stock in the market. It's what other people are trading, but I'm priced out. I can't afford it. So if there's days like that, then for the small account, it's going to have to be a no trade day. I really can only trade on days when I've got 85, 90% conviction that this setup is going to work and that the stock fits within the profile of having the potential to go up at least 20% from my entry point. So if we think about that for a second, if I bought a stock at $3, that means I want to see that it has the potential to go to $3, $3, $3, $3, $6 ideally. 10, 20%. So as you start to get into higher price ranges, getting that full 15, 20% is going to be harder. When I'm looking at something that's 50 cents a share, gosh, if it goes to 60 cents, boom, I'm done. 70 cents, I'm in great shape. So that's what I'm going to end up honing in on and focusing on. And that's really specific to trading in a small account. When you're in a small account, you've got to kind of hone in on the type of stocks that can give you the biggest bang for your buck. That's the biggest difference between my regular strategy and the small account strategy. For the regular strategy, I'll trade lower price stocks. I'll trade higher price stocks. I'll trade 50 times a day if I see enough opportunities and I feel good about them. But for this challenge, I really can only trade if I'm going to go aggressive only once a day. And that means that I'm going to use all of my buying power on one trade. I'll explain how that's going to work in a second. Okay, so step one is to find the stock that meets my criteria. And then step two is to actually take the trade. And what I'm going to focus on is trading micro pullbacks on the front side of a breakout when the MACD is above the signal line. I will also include my micro pullback PDF in the selection of free resources that you guys can download over on the link that's pinned in the description in the top of the comments. So if we look at the stock that I traded today, and we could pull up a thinkorswim here. So BCTX was the first stock that I traded. Actually, this was the second stock I traded today. Up $552 on it. And if we pull up the chart, let's look at this. So we're going to back this up here. I'm going to zoom in to right here. So initially, this stock squeezed up and hit our scanners right in this little leg higher. It then pulls back. And as it comes back up, that's right there where I got in. And we ended up getting a move on this from $1 all the way up to just under $1.40. So right there, you're talking about a 40% move. That is awesome. It then broke $1.40 and went up to $1.50 all the way up to $2 a share. Went a little bit higher than $2. Went up to a high of $2.10. So at that point, this was our number one leading percentage gainer. And this is the stock that had news today. So as part of my criteria of analyzing a stock and trying to decide whether or not it's worth trading, I'm trying to understand what the catalyst is. They had a catalyst this morning of overall positive overall survival in metastatic breast cancer. So they've got a great headline. The stock squeezed up 150-200%. Later in the day, they end up doing an offering. That's not uncommon. And that's one of the reasons that it's really important to get in and get out and not overstay your welcome. Those of you guys that have gone through my warrior starter class, my day train the basics, or my full-length strategies and scaling course, you guys know all about offerings, shelf registrations, the different types of filings that these companies make that will put shareholders on notice that there's a possibility that they'll raise money. But even though there's a possibility that a lot of these companies will need to at some point raise money, in the short term, when you've got a breaking news catalyst, a headline like that, there's an opportunity for volatility. And as active traders, what do we love? We love volatility. We don't make money buying something at five and selling at five. We make money buying something at $1 and selling it at $1.20. So this setup that I'm going to be focusing on, which I took, which I traded on BCTX, is called the micro pullback. So if I back this up here, the micro pullback, when the stock is above the MACD. So the first leg of the move up is essentially when a stock is quickly moving higher. And this was actually, this one gave us kind of two nice moves. This was the first one right here from 85 cents up to $1, pulled back up to $1, $5, $10. And each one of those little dips right there and right there and right there. Each one of those represent possible buying opportunities. Now there's a great book that some of you guys may have read. It's called Thinking in Bets by Annie Duke. This is the copy of the book right here. And in this book, she talks about her brother teaching her how to play poker. And he said, these are the hands that you play and you don't play anything other than those hands. And she said, well wait a second. I've been watching these really successful poker players playing all kinds of different hands that aren't what you showed me. And he said, yeah, yeah, yeah. When you get good, you can play those hands. But as a beginner, just play these ones. These are the ones that have the highest probability of success. And so that's kind of the way I'm approaching the small count challenge. I'm not going to focus on trading every different setup that I'm comfortable with. I'm going to focus on the ones that I have the highest conviction in because here's the thing. If I'm only going to take one trade a day, if I use all of my cash in the account to take one trade, I'm not risking the whole account because of course, if the stock goes down, then I'll get out for a small loss. But let's say I'm going to risk as much as 3% of the account in one day or 5% of the account. I'll take a little bit of risk because it's a small account. So I'm going to get in and if that stock drops, then I'm out and I can't take another trade until tomorrow. I can only trade with settled cash. So I have to be really confident that the setup is going to work because it's the only shot that I get for that day. Now the other option would be to trade more frequently, but with smaller positions. The problem with doing that is that I'm going to be under capitalizing on those A quality opportunities. And when I see something that's really good, I'm going to take the risk. I'm going to take the trade because I have the conviction in my intuition. I know when I'm right, you know, when I've got the confidence and I know what I'm doing that I can do really well. So I'm going to put my money where my mouth is on that. Okay, so on a BCTX, this first part of the move here, the MACD is, we've got the MACD that's positive. It's above the signal line right here. And we've got these micro pullbacks right here, right here, and right here. So this was that first leg higher right here. And that's actually where I took my first trade. Then I came back in in this area, and this is where I traded it in my main account. So in my big account, I was like, all right, in this area, now I'm going to come in and take some trades. But my first goal today was building a cushion in the small account. And I did a pretty good job of that. Five hundred fifty two dollars. Okay, so now let's pull our slide deck back up here. So trading micro pullbacks on the front side of the move, the front side of a breakout. When the MACD is above the signal line, for me is my go to setup. Again, you can read about that in the download, the PDF download. All right, so I'm going to be, of course, using my charts here. Now, although you could use charts, I suppose anywhere you want, with day trade dash, we have charts built in. So I'll, of course, use the charts right here. This is an example of the MACD being above the signal line right here. Once it crosses over, that's when things start to get choppy. So front side of the move right here, like when this stock goes from two fifty to three, three fifty to four, four fifty to five, this is the type of area where I want to be focusing on trading. In this area here, when it's getting choppy, no, I don't care about that. Now, I already know I don't care about that just based on the price action, but the MACDs are really helpful indicator, just to remind you that when the MACDs open, the stock is usually moving quickly. Once it crosses over, we're coming into consolidation, and although you can see another cross back later and another move higher, this just tends to be the area where things get a little bit choppier. So, step one, finding a stock that meets my five criteria. That means it's got to be moving, and it's got to be lower priced. Step two, performing my technical analysis and looking for that first pullback. Now, with Thinkorswim, I am going to be using the level two. So, when you're using Thinkorswim, you have the ladder right here, and then you also have the level two right down here. Now, if you use level two with a different platform, that's fine, but the level two is the same across these platforms. The only thing that's different between the platform that I typically use, and this is that I have my gradient, a different color. I just, I don't prefer this shade, but it's not a deal breaker. I mean, I'll use, you know, I'll use what's here, and this is fine. So, the way I'll trade, especially pre-market, is I'll type in the symbol BCTX, and those you guys that download my layout, you'll be able to do this just the same as me, so oops, BCTX. And I'm using the active trader tab right here, so it's under trade, and then under active trader. And I'm going to go right down here, and I like to actually make it just a teeny bit narrower, right here like that. And the reason I like to do this is because I have buy ask right here, and that's the button that I'm pressing pre-market. I have it on extended hours, so I could do a pre-market trade. It's set to auto-send, so buy ask, and then sell bid or sell ask. And typically I buy the ask, and I also try to sell on the ask. I do that because that way I get the best exit. Now, when I buy on the ask, I'm not getting the best price, but what I have found is that when a stock is moving quickly, if you try to buy on the bid, you have to wait for someone to sell you shares. And when a stock is moving quickly, no one's selling shares. So, you're not going to get any shares filled. It's too competitive to sit on the bid. You just won't get filled, you'll miss the move. So, during regular trading hours, I would be happy to buy market and sell market. But remember, pre-market and after hours, market orders don't work. So, in Thinkorswim, the only way to trade pre-market and after hours is to buy the ask or sell the ask or buy the bid or sell the bid. Now, what I can also do is I can point and click here. So, I can press down the control button, and instead of being a stop order, it'll be a limit order. So, I could point and click and click buy right here, and that would be fine, too. I can do the point and click here or point and click on the sell side. I can also point and click on the level two window down here. However, it's important to note that the level two window is not connected with this order template, which means the level two window down here will execute orders based actually on up here, application, shared order defaults, this number of shares. So, make sure if you're going to point and click on the level two that you have the number of shares in here that you want to work, because otherwise you're going to end up getting confused because you might type 7,500 shares to buy a penny stock, but it only goes through for whatever your order default is, maybe 100 shares or something like that. Now, for the duration of this challenge, if you guys want to watch me while I'm trading, you can join or you're trading. You could do a two-week trial, and even if you're watching this week from now or months from now, you could join a two-week trial and you could watch over my shoulder for two weeks and get a sense of what it's like to be in the community. Now, when you do a two-week trial, it's two weeks for $20, and the $20 helps cover your market data costs. So, we're going to give you real-time market data, so $20 for the real-time market data, so you'll have the scanners, the charts, the newsfeed, all of this here running on real-time data. So, if you want to check it out for two weeks, you're welcome to do that, and then you can watch over my shoulder as I'm doing this challenge, or if it's in the future as I'm trading just in my regular account or perhaps in the middle of a new challenge. So, step three is to execute the trades in Thinkorswim's ActiveTrader window. Alright, so I already started getting into this. Now, I'm pretty particular about how I want this window set up because I'm used to being able to move in and out of the market quickly, and Thinkorswim, if I'm going to be honest, is not the most intuitive platform. It's just a little funny compared to what I'm used to, and again, it's fine, you know, I can use it. It's just not my absolute favorite. The biggest disadvantage with Thinkorswim is that the buttons don't allow offsets, so I can't set orders above or below the current ask or the current bid without either pointing or clicking, which I can do, or manually entering an order, which is kind of a pain. And similarly, the hot key settings, which I'll share with you in a second, I have those scripted, so with just the press of buttons on my keyboard, I can be getting in and out of trade. So, this is my keyboard right here. I'll show you on the overhead. So, this is the keyboard that I'm using, and so Shift-1, for example, is a buy order, but it can't be a market order because that won't work pre-market. So, Shift-1 has to be buy-ask. Shift-2, well, there's no real sense in doing that because the order is based on the number of shares that you've put into your quantity. So, Shift-1 basically sends the order for that number of shares, and then I have a button for bailing out and selling on the bid. So, rather than having to point and click, I can just do it with my keyboard, which allows me to trade pretty quickly. So, I can move in and out of the market pretty fast, which is important. But I think something that we have to talk about here is risk management. Okay, risk management and profit targets. So, for a small account challenge, it is so important to focus on the process. I always say that profits are a byproduct of that process. The goal is to take one trade per day with a minimum of 1,000 shares. All right, so we're going to start writing this out here. So, minimum position is 1,000 shares. Why is that? The reason is because I want to make at least $200 on each trade, and I know, certainly on stocks between $3 and $4 or $5 a share, getting $0.20 is pretty obtainable. For a good setup on a micro pullback, I can get $0.20, which means I can get $200. So, my kind of minimum goal is that each day that I trade in the account, I'm able to grow the account by $200. Today, I was able to do better than that. Of course, some days I'll come up short, but the minimum goal is $200. So, 1,000 shares times $0.20 per share equals $200. Now, again, what's obvious here is that if I'm trading a stock that's priced at $0.50 a share, I'm probably not going to capture it all the way to $0.70. That would be, yes, a $0.20 move, but realistically on something like this that's cheaper, I'm going to take bigger share size, so I can essentially make the most from that move. So, in a second, I'll share with you the account balance that I have, because that's going to sort of dictate essentially what my max price points are. So, goal number one is to try to focus on one trade a day with a minimum of 1,000 shares. So, anything that's higher price where I can't afford at least 1,000 shares, I'm not going to trade it. I'm just going to say it's not worth it, and on that day, I'll trade in my main account, I won't trade with thinkorswim. So, $20 said profit target per share, that's going to be the standard when I'm trading stocks in the $2 to $10, well, not quite, but that kind of price range, the lower price range, but not penny stocks. So, and then I've got to establish a 2 to 1 profit to loss ratio before taking a trade. So, what that means is that if I'm looking at the setup and I'm pulling up the charts, I'm thinking, all right, how much am I risking on this trade and how much do I stand again? So, on this setup right here for the breakthrough a dollar, which was right here, I said, all right, if I buy this right here at 95 cents, my stop is 90 cents. So, I'm risking five cents a share, and my profit target on this is 10 cents a share, right? So, getting it at 95 cents, profit target at $1.05, and boom, we got that right there. And that was a really clean trade. This is a nice micro pullback, and we got that nice move up. And that's one of the reasons I love the micro pullback. The psychology around this setup is you have a stock right now that has breaking news. It's squeezing on news, traders are excited about it, and while it will pull back, the pullbacks are momentary. It just dips for a second before another round of traders come in and start buying up that pullback for the next leg higher. So, this is so common when we have a really strong stock. In fact, every stock that I trade today that I made money on showed a micro pullback. And then this pullback a little bit deeper, this was no longer a micro pullback. This is a true dip below volume weight average price, which is one of the technical indicators that I like to use. And then as it rallied back up, we got some micro pullbacks in this area as we got that leg higher. But to be honest, the cleanest one really was that one right there at the beginning of the move. And it's just so common that those first couple of pullbacks are the cleanest. That's when there's the most exuberance. That's when people are the most excited because look, this is a stock that has fresh breaking news. People are excited about, they want to trade it. So now my risk management is, and this is kind of something I was thinking about quite a bit. I don't want to lose more than 10% of the account at any given time. So that's not exactly like a single, I mean, gosh, I hope I don't lose 10% in one day. But if I had like three red days, for instance, or I had a bad week, I don't want to lose more than 10% of the account during a drawdown. I understand that some traders are going to say, look, Ross, 10% of the account. I mean, what are we talking about here? This is, you know, the S&P 500 might not go up 10% in a whole year. You can't be risking that much. Some people would say you should never risk more than 1% in the trade. Okay, it's good to depend on account size. So let's get real here for a second. If you have a $500 account and you're only going to risk 1% of that account, let's get real. You're not going to take trades where you're truly risking $5 to make $10 and see any growth in that account anytime soon. And if you're telling me, Ross, I have to follow this risk management because this is my last $500. I would say, okay, that's fine. I understand that. But what I would also say is that this $500 could probably earn more doing something else. Like, for instance, buying a lawnmower and mowing five lawns a day for $20 a lawn. You're going to make $100 a day with this lawnmower. That's going to make a lot more than what you're going to make day trading with a $500 account, especially if it's a cash account with no leverage. So you go up to a $500 or $5,000 account or whatever the case says, 10% of the account, 50 bucks. Here, $500, right? So this is like, to me, I just don't feel like I can make enough growth without taking risk. And risk for me means I'm comfortable losing 10% of the account. But what I know is that based on my strategy, my accuracy is 65%, 70%. So over the course of 10 trades or over the course of 100 trades, I will certainly have a handful of losses, right? 30% will be losers. So I might start with a loser. I might have three losers in a row to start the challenge. Well, I actually had a loser on my first trade today. But then the second trade was a winner and that was fine. But anyways, statistically, what I know is that if I have enough time, I will recover. So what I really have to be thinking about is, am I going to lose 10% before the statistical advantage comes back in my favor? And that means how many losses in a row could I potentially have, right? That's when you're asking the real question. So let's just say I had three losses in a row. And each loss was 3% of the account. So then I'm coming down towards a 10% drawdown. All right. So I suppose that's probably the way I should look at it. It's possible that I could lose in theory the first three trades. Now, fortunately, although I lost on the first one, I did lose on the second. So now I've already started to build the cushion and move in the right direction. And we'll get into today's trades in a little bit more detail in a second. But now let's talk for a second about my Thinkorswim settings because you've got to customize Thinkorswim for active trading. The first setting is quote speed. You got to set the quote speed to real time with no delay. This goes without saying, but it's important and not everyone has it set that way. So if you go into your settings in Thinkorswim, you pull up Thinkorswim and I've got it right up here. So you pull up Thinkorswim, you go to your settings right here, you go to application settings, and then you go down here to active, no, sorry, what was it? System. You go to real time, no delay. All right. So that's your first one. Let's do that. Now the other changes are also in the same account settings area. So the second change is under active trader settings. And what I do under active trader settings is I set the order submission limit to zero. I don't want to have a limit because if I want to click twice or I want to press the buy button twice, I want to make sure those orders are getting filled. So I don't want to have a limit on my order submission rate. And the second is I want the ladder to auto center as frequently as it can. The more frequently at auto centers, the easier it is for the easier it is for me to see the current price. So this is referring to this ladder right here, auto centering at the current trading price. So that's number two. And then number three, I have reset active trader order template after sending. I uncheck that. Because if I click, if I put in a template that's very specific, I don't want it resetting after I send the order. I'm probably going to keep using those template, that template settings as long as I'm trading the stock. So I get so annoyed when it resets on me. So you don't want it resetting on you. And then your hotkey settings are the next important one. Now some of these settings will transfer when you load my layout, but I'm not sure if all of them will. So I'll go over the hotkey settings with you here for one quick second. All right, so we're going to go to hotkeys. We're going to go down to active trader. And we're going to enable those hotkeys, as you can see right here. And this is how I'm going to set it up. Shift one is by ask. Shift two is by market. Control Z is cell bid. Sorry, alt Z is cell market. And control K is cell ask. Control Q is cancel all open orders. And that's it. That's all I do. I just, I try to keep it really simple. I don't want to overcomplicate it. So all I have to remember really is shift one and control Z. Those are the two orders. Shift one, control Z, and then control Q to cancel orders. The control K and then the alt Z is market order. So it's only going to work during regular trading hours. And most likely by the time the bell rings at 9.30, I will have already taken my one and only trade for the day. And I'm going to be out of buying power and I'm going to have to wait until tomorrow. So that's just the way it's going to be. And that's because most of the stocks I'm trading are squeezing up on breaking news. Stocks are moving up on breaking news. The news comes out pre-market. So that's the window to be focusing. The next setting is assigning more memory to Thinkorswim. So when you first load it, you can click a little settings widget and you can come down here to assign more memory to it. Of course, you have to be mindful of your computer and whether or not your computer can handle the memory that you're trying to have it allocate towards Thinkorswim, but hopefully your computer is able to. Now, the Thinkorswim layout, you can download it. That's going to be pinned in the top comment linked in the description. That's part of the group of downloads that you guys will have. So you're going to get my micro pullback strategy, you're going to get my stock selection PDF, and you're going to get my layout, my Thinkorswim layout, and then you can install it. And the way I'm going to have this set up is Thinkorswim is on the right and my day trade dash platform is on the left. So they're kind of on the same monitor on the right and on the left. This Thinkorswim is just really purely for order execution. That's all it's for. I'm only executing orders there. I'm not using it for charting. Now, you could use Thinkorswim for charting, but I'm used to using the software that I've been using for charting. And of course, this is also where we've got the news feed, the scanners, and the chat room and everything else is built in. So for those of you guys using day trade dash, you sort of have all of this in one platform. And you can use Thinkorswim with real money, or you can use Thinkorswim for paper trading. To be clear, I'm using it for real money. So this is a real money trading account. All right. So I'm going to have it set up basically on my monitor. This is on the side, kind of just like this. And, you know, I'll sort of squeeze it, squish it down a little bit just to take up less space, but to keep the cancel button here and these buttons stacked above each other. That's how I like it to be. So that's how it is each day. And then I've got my day trade dash right here. And then of course, if I'm trading in my regular account as well, then my regular account will be here and then I'll move day trade dash up to my second monitor just above. So it'll be up there. So that'll allow me to kind of go back and forth. And now one thing that I'll say is that trading into accounts at the same time is not easy. There will be times where I see a setup that's so good. I'm like, I want to take it in Thinkorswim, but I also want to take it in my main account so I can not make 500, but make 5000. So there will be times where I'll try to take the same trade in both accounts. That's never easy to do. Generally what it means is I'm going to say, all right, well, okay, I like the setup. I'm going to buy it here in Thinkorswim. And I might click, I'll click the buy button, buy it in Thinkorswim. And then I'll say, okay, in Thinkorswim, I'm going to hold it for a second. And now I'm going to trade it over in my light speed account on the next setup. So I might trade either two different setups, so I'll hold one through both setups or I'll just do the best I can to kind of click the buy button here and then click the buy button in my light speed account sort of as quickly as I can. It's not a super smooth process, but I've done it before and I don't mind doing that and I did that today. So it's fine. It's just, it's a little clunky. And to be honest, I'll always perform better if I'm just focusing on one account. But doing these challenges does potentially come at a sacrifice to my main account. You know, if we look at my main trading account, I did $170,000 last month, $230,000 in the month before. So I'm happy to do a small account challenge. I try to figure out how to do it at the same time as trading my regular account, so I'm not sacrificing the gains from main account. So sometimes that'll mean the first trade, I'll just take in Thinkorswim, that'll be my one trade of the day and then Thinkorswim goes on the side and my main account for the rest of the day. That's probably what I'm going to do on most days. But again, it'll depend on the setups that we're looking at. So now let's talk for a second about the account type that I chose and then we'll look at the trades from today. So I chose a cash account versus a margin account. With a cash account, as you know, the trades settle overnight. And this is an improvement this year. We went from two-day settlement to one-night settlement, so T1. So all of the trades I took today will settle, and I can trade that money again right in early tomorrow morning. Thinkorswim allows trading beginning at exactly 7 a.m. So starting at 7 a.m, my account will be settled and I'll be able to take as many trades as I want up until my max cash balance. So the way I kind of calculated this, I thought about a margin account. And the advantages of a margin account is that I could take three trades in one day. So for those of you who can only trade one day a week, a margin account could actually be appealing. You could take all three trades in one day, but then you can't trade again for five days. So you got to wait a full week because the PDT rule is governs margin accounts. So in a margin account where you could shore and you could use leverage, you have to have at least $25,000 if you're going to day trade. If you're not going to day trade, if you're holding overnight, then it doesn't matter, but you're restricted to only three-day trades in a five-day period. So the net effect is that you can't trade as frequently in a margin. Well, that's actually funny. You can trade more frequently because you could trade three times in one day, but then that's it for the rest of the week. Whereas in a cash account, you can trade 10 times or 30 times or 100 times in one day if you're trading with just one share and you don't run out of buying power, you could just keep trading and trading and trading. So I actually did the math. Now, what I ended up doing was I set up a Roth IRA account. This is an individual retirement account and this is a Roth account. And I did two years of contributions. So what I ended up doing, and anyone can do this, you can go over to Thinkorswim right now or Charles Schwab, and you click retirement account, you click open account, and you can open it and you can fund the account using one contribution for last year, and then you can do this year's contribution, depending on when it is in the year. Later in the year, you could do one for this year and you can do one for next year. So pretty much at any time you could do two years worth of contributions, and the maximum contribution amount is $6,500. So I created this Roth IRA and I did two contributions. Now, the contribution is a post income tax income. So it's post tax income. So I already paid income tax on the $6,500, and then I made that contribution. Now, it just so happened that I set this account up and I was thinking, well, you know, it is below the PDT rule and this is kind of exactly what I did with my big Roth IRA. My big Roth IRA, I did three contributions over the course of three years, right? It was like two and a half years, but anyway. So there's three contributions holding $18,000 and then I day traded in it just once a day until the account was over $25,000. And then once it was over $25,000, I hit the PDT level and boom, smooth sailing, I was off to the races. I could trade as much as I wanted. And that account, I have grown from $18,000 in initial contributions. So I put in $18,000 today. That account is over $7 million. I've grown it to over $7 million in fully audited gains. Now, I'll say as always, those results are not typical. But I did it trading the same strategies that I can be trading during this challenge. Well, certainly for the first few weeks or the first few months, growing it from 18,000 to 25,000, I was only able to trade, you know, a couple of times a week on a quality setups. And I had to be very careful because I knew if I lost money, I'm not allowed to add more money to the account because that would exceed your maximum contribution balance for each year. So I started with $13,000 in this account. So the account right now has, so I started today and I'll pull this up for you here. So $13,000. And if we monitor it here, my year-to-day P&L, my P&L on the day today is, what is it, $300 and something, $398? $398.25. That's my P&L on the day. My overall P&L on the year is $403.47. So I don't know if it's interest or, I might have taken a trade earlier in the year when I was teaching class, just kind of like messing around. I was just showing people, oh, look, you bought, this is how you use Thinkorswim. So maybe there are a couple of trades. But anyways, you can see this is where I'm at year-to-date. So as we go through this challenge, you'll know that I started with $13,000 in contributions. And that's my starting balance. I mean, you guys are going to say, Ross, that's not a small account. I'm trading with $1300. Okay, fair enough. If you're trading with $1300, and I would trade with $1300, too, then today would be a $40 green day. If I'm trading with $130,000, then I guess today might have been a $4,000 green day. Although as it turns out, that's not the case because in my main account with about $150,000, I was up $11,000. I peaked at about $11,300, $400. And I was able to do that because I was able to take so many trades. So right now, the growth is going to be limited and it's going to be slower while I'm under that PDT level. That's just the way it's going to be. So I've got to work with what I've got. The growth is going to be a little bit slower, but it's going to be steady. So my focus each day is going to be sitting down and starting step one with finding a stock that meets my five pillars of stock selection. It's got to be a stock that's moving quickly. Now, the first trade today, I was kind of funny because if I pull this back up here, my first trade, ooh, it was on QH. So QH, this is a stock that, oops, sorry, I'll put this over here for you guys to check out as well in a second. So QH, this stock made a big move earlier today. And I tried to jump in and I kind of screwed up on that trade. So the problem that I was having was I got in QH and I was green on it, but I was fumbling my orders. So I just, I kept pressing cell, I think it was, oh, you know what? I think that might have happened is my template reset because my orders were not going through. I kept pressing sell, ask, sell, ask, sell, ask. I wasn't filling anything. Finally, I sold on the bid and what initially was a profit ended up being a loss of $154. And I was like, all right, this is not good. So now I've taken my first trade. The only thing that was good about it was that it was with a small enough position that I didn't use all of my buying power. And so when we had this move on BCTX, when BCTX popped up, I was like, this is perfect. BCTX is the right price. And what I actually ended up doing on BCTX was I bought, I think it was 5,000 shares. So 5,000 shares is about 75, no, it's 95 cents a share. So let's see, I can pull this up here. So I got in this for the break over a dollar. So my entry, let's see, yeah, I added for the break over a dollar. And my best exit was actually at $1.11, which is pretty good. So on that one, I captured about $0.10 a share, about $0.11 a share. And that gave me the $552 a profit. So for that, I was like, awesome. And that put me net right around $398, 400 on the day. So with a $13,000 account, now I'm sitting with a balance of $13,000. $13,422.65. My goal is to grow this account to $25,000. And it's not a matter of if I can do it. It's just a matter of how long it's going to take. Most likely, what's going to happen is I'm going to take one trade a day. I'm going to use the full $13,000 of buying power. So essentially what that means, knowing I've got $13,000 in this account right now, and the goal is $25K, if I see a stock that pops up on my scanner at, let's say, you know, $2 a share, a $2 stock, well, I could buy 6,000 shares of that. So I could actually take a pretty decent size position. I could. Now the only question is risk. If I buy it at two and it drops to $1.80, I'm going to be down 1,201 trade. So I might be able to afford 6,000 shares, but I might not feel I can manage the risk to take 6,000. So it's going to depend on the difference between my entry and my stop, and that's going to be based on the micro pullback. So if I'm buying down here for the first candle to make a new high, and my stop is the low of that micro pullback, which you'll learn about in that PDF, then let's say this is a five cents stop, five cents stop, 6,000 shares. I'm risking 300 bucks. All right. So 300 bucks, that's about 3% of the account. I could tolerate that profit target, it's got to be 10 cents a share. I need to be able to make $600. And if I think that that's reasonable, two to one profit loss ratio, boom, I'll take the trade with 6,000 shares. Now, if we have a stock that's $4 a share, then I'm only going to be able to buy 3,000 shares approximately, right? If we have a stock that's $5 a share, I'm going to be able to buy, you know, a little over 2,000 shares, and I'm going to just have to kind of do the math quickly of what can I afford? What can I afford to buy? Now, of course, I can type in the order and I can get my order rejected, and then I'll know, oh, I put it in for too many shares. So that's, I could do that, but it's going to be probably faster if I can just think of the number based on just the quick math of five times two is 10, I can afford that. Maybe I'll do 2,200 shares. Now, if we have a cheap stock, something that's 70 cents a share, I could potentially take 15,000 shares, 20,000 shares. So I'm not quite 20,000, but I could start to take some big positions. And if this goes up from 70 cents to 85 cents a share, you know, that's $1,500. So I guess the question here is, what is the most likely path to making 1,500 bucks? Is it buying 15,000 shares of something at 70 cents? Or is it buying 6,000 shares of something at $2? On the one hand, part of me thinks that this is kind of the sweet spot because what we know is that when stocks trade below $1 a share, they trade down to the 1,100th of a penny. So 99,17, they could trade all the way down to the 1,100th of a penny, whereas once they're over $1 a share, 101 by 102. So that means the number of increments for a stock to go from a dollar, from $1 to $1,10 is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, $1,10. Oops, $1,10. There's 10 pennies. But for a stock to go from $0.90 with two zeros, all the way to $1 is technically 1,000 increments because each penny has 1,100th of a penny quotes. So while stocks don't usually trade that thickly, that it'll take 1,000 ticks for a stock to go from $0.90 to $1, what we do know is that it is infinitely thicker when it's below $1 and when it's above $1, it's less than 1%, to 10th of a percent as thick. And so once a stock breaks above $1 and holds above $1, that's when things get interesting. So generally speaking, stocks between $1.25, holding above $1, anything above $1, though, between $1 and $2.50, that could be the sweet spot for getting nice 20 to 30 cent potential winners. A 30 cent winner on 6,000 shares, that'd be an $1,800 winner. Now, it's also possible that we could have stocks that, you know, like we had yesterday, we had that nice stock, it was, gosh, it was SMX. So let me pull it up over here. So SMX ended up squeezing yesterday morning from $2 all the way up to $5 a share. So, you know, we could get something like that that gives us a really huge move. And even if I only have 2,000 shares, if I got a full dollar a share, well, shoot, you know, that could work very nicely. So at the end of the day, profits, as I said, are a byproduct of following a consistent process that is repeatable. So each day when I sit down, I am looking for stocks that have the potential to make a big move. I see a stock like CNEY, I'm going to be interested. It's up 278%, it's priced at $1.13 a share. I mean, it's got the 2 million share float, it's got the crazy high relative volume. You know, if it's got news and everything else, I'm definitely going to be interested. And I'm going to be focusing on buying the micro pullback. I'm going to try to use pretty much the full $13,000 one trade, get in, get out. If I can make, if I can grow the account each day by 10%, that would be amazing. Realistically, I'm probably not going to see that growth without using leverage. And I don't have leverage in this account. In the past, when I've done small account challenges, I've had leverage. I've had four times or even six times leverage. So with a $3,000 deposit, I have $13,000 of buying power. So I can grow the $3,000 account by $1,500 in one day. Potentially, and I've done that before. I'm not going to be able to do that every single day in a row with this account. It's just not possible. So the biggest challenge in this thinkorswim challenge is being patient, being patient with the fact that I'm just not going to be able to take huge trades and see really fast growth. Now, my plan through this challenge is that I'm going to be updating traders in the warrior trading community in the warrior trading chat room every day. When I take a trade, you guys will see it in real time. I may not upload a recap for every single trade here to YouTube. And that's just going to depend on the fact that I'm going to do my regular recaps every single day, as always. And the small account, if I have a day where I'm up $42, I don't know if I'm going to do a recap for it. It's just not a big enough game. So I might wait until I have, I don't know, five days or six days or something like that. You know, I've made some nice progress and then do a progress report, do a recap for that. So episode two, while it may come tomorrow, if I have a really nice day, don't expect that I'm going to have uploads every single day as part of this thinkorswim challenge. There'll be more periodic, but for those of you guys who are doing the two week trial, you'll of course be able to watch in real time as I'm growing the account. And I'll give you my breakdown of the stocks I'm choosing, why I'm getting in, where I'm getting in, why I'm taking profit, where I'm taking profit, as always. The focus has to be quality. Something that I've noticed that a lot of beginner traders struggle with is something that I call a negative feedback loop. And this begins with losses that get bigger and bigger and bigger. And it starts with poor accuracy. You've got a poor profit loss ratio, sorry, you've got poor accuracy, which means out of, you know, 10 trades, you might be writing only four, four or five. So like 40 to 50% accuracy, approximately. You've got low accuracy. And then that in turn, the result of poor accuracy is that you take more losses than necessary, and you expose yourself to large losses. So large negative trades, big losses, and you then have a negative profit to loss ratio, where your average losers are bigger than your average winners. This, in turn, hurts your accuracy or your consistency. So when you look at your calendar, all of these days start to be read because your profit loss ratio is negative, you're just losing money. And then what does that do? That hurts confidence. So your confidence takes ahead, and then you start adjusting your position sizes, and a lot of people start to get emotionally fueled. So now the emotions start to build up. You start to feel pressure and frustration, and this just feeds this negative feedback loop. And with a small account, it's very easy for this to happen because the pressure is high. When you have high stakes, you feel like you've got a lot of pressure. It's a lot easier to make these mistakes. So one of the things that I'm going to be a big advocate of here, sorry, I don't know why that was black for a second. One of the reasons I'm going to be a big advocate of focusing on accuracy is that by focusing on the highest quality setups, I can put myself on a positive feedback loop. And today was day one of that positive feedback loop. So although the first trade was a loser, and although I guess you could argue that my accuracy was only 50% today, focusing on high accuracy, part of that was because I fumbled. So I still ended up having a great profit to loss ratio today. My profit loss ratio for this challenge so far is $150 loser versus a $552 winner. That's my current profit loss ratio because I've only got two trades. My accuracy currently is 50%. But I'm green. So on the calendar, we've got a nice green day here. So what does that create? Confidence. And what does that make me feel good about doing tomorrow? Trading with big percentage, big size, being aggressive and continuing to only trade a quality setups. I don't feel desperation. I don't feel like, oh man, tomorrow I need to make up for that screw up today. Not at all. Tomorrow, if there's nothing good, I will not trade. Now, if you're doing a small account challenge on your own, you're showing up every single day and there's nothing that looks good for real money, you should trade in the simulator. So you still gain experience. But with the real money account, you say, nope, this day doesn't call for real money. It's not good enough. The setups aren't strong enough. They're not worthy of my money. And then you don't trade real money at all. You say, nope, I'm just going to trade in the sim today. And that'd be totally okay. But today was a good day, even though accuracy was low, but I think I can solve for that just by sort of smoothing out, ironing out some of these bumps with a new platform. And so tomorrow I'm coming in with confidence. I'm going to feel comfortable trading using the full $13,000, now $400, $13,400 on a trade. And hopefully I can get one good trade. If I can get 20, 30 cents a share, boom, that's going to be another green day. And that's going to go into more confidence. And so I'm going to build this track record focusing generally on one trade a day. Now, as I said, there may be times where I see a stock at $2 a share. And I'm like, I can't buy 6,000 shares of it. And so I'm only going to buy 3,000 shares of it, which means I still have buying power left over. And I could go ahead and take trade number two or trade number three. So there may be some days like today where I'm not using all my buying power. And I have the available cash to, you know, take more trades. And that's totally fine. I don't think that's going to be the case on most days because if I have the conviction, I'm going to jump in quick, but something that could also happen. And this actually reminds me, did happen today on one of the trades was not getting filled. So I pressed the buy button and my order just sat there. I didn't get filled. So then I was like, Ali, that's annoying because that was a good setup. And I had the right idea and I tried to get in, but my order got skipped. And look, that's going to happen sometimes. So, you know, there may be days where my order gets skipped or I get only a partial fill. And so I'm left over with some buying power that I could potentially use on another trade. So this challenge is going to be a little bit different from challenges I've done in the past. I've got no leverage. I've got no margin cash only settled cash. And I've got to make each trade count. I'm going to focus on those lower price stocks that have the potential to make big moves. If you want to watch me as I'm doing this challenge in real time, make sure you check out a two week trial at Warrior Trading. If you want to download all of those PDFs, make sure you check out that link that's pinned to the top of the comments and linked in the description. And if you enjoy episodes about trading strategy like this, I hope you hit that thumbs up and subscribe the channel. Our mind is always that trading is risky. My results are typical, so manage your risk and always practice new strategies you're learning in a safe, simulated environment. Thanks as always for tuning in. I'll see you for the next upload real soon.