# 48. How to Find Stocks BEFORE The Make A Big Move! (Step-by-Step Guide)
# id=G4uTdr_zx1I (whisper base.en)

All right, everyone, so in today's episode, I'm gonna break down how a stock is able to go up over 1,500% in two days. We just saw that, you know what? This is not gonna be the last time I'm sitting here doing a recap of a stock, especially a penny stock, that goes up over 1,000%. We have seen this before, we will see it again. So for you, as an aspiring trader, as a beginner trader, or even as someone who's been doing this for a while, the goal, as always, is to figure out how can I find these stocks before they go up 1,000%, right? I mean, that would be perfect. I'm gonna walk you through the next best thing, which is getting in as early as possible as the move begins. I'm gonna share with you my process, the strategy and system that I use for finding these stocks in real time, for performing my due diligence and deciding whether or not I should even trade them, and then actually deciding where to buy and where to sell. At the end of the day, the trader who is able to predict the future the best will make the most money, which is in other words to say that you buy a stock and you know which direction it's gonna go. That's easier said than done, but I'm gonna start walking you through it right here. Now, this is our case study, WHLR. This is a chart where a stock has gone up 1,500%. You can see down here under a dollar a share, all the way here up to about $3, pulled back, squeezed up to seven, this was yesterday, pulled back in after hours, closed around 450. At that time, it didn't look like anything crazy. I mean, this was a nice move, but the fact that we peaked here yesterday and then we kind of pulled back into the close, I sort of thought it was done. And then all of a sudden pre-market at 4 a.m., boom! This thing explodes. It goes all the way up to a high of $15. And we're gonna look at this chart and dial in because this is a 15-minute chart right here. You can see 15. So we're gonna break down this into the one-minute candle so you can actually see what happened there. But that was absolutely incredible. And then it proceeds to stair-step down, right? It's kind of stepping down. Now, it kind of squeezed back up a little bit. And so today, I was able to lock up about $6,425 and $0.32 to be exact. And most of it was on WHLR. There were four stocks I traded and I am green on all four. So over the last two days, I've traded WHR. I've made some good money on it. I would have done better if I'd held my whole position from yesterday. But one of the things that I'm gonna preach is that you never know how much a stock like this is gonna go up before eventually it comes back down. Cause what goes up comes back down. Eventually, the fundamentals matter with these type of companies and you can't expect they're gonna go up forever. So it's important to pay yourself. Now, if you're the type of trader that's just looking for a home run, you know, that's where you're gonna be more inclined to buy something and hold it and hope it becomes something huge. But for every home run that you hit, you're probably gonna have eight or nine strikeouts, which gives you low accuracy. I would rather be the type of trader that's right 75, 80% of the time, maybe on a really good day. And even if my winners are smaller, I'm gonna feel better with that higher accuracy cause it's gonna give me a sense of confidence. Like, I know what I'm doing. At a 10 trades, I'm green on, you know, seven of them. That's gonna be a pretty solid day. Okay, so why don't we step back here and we can look at first sort of the process of how we even find a stock like WHLR. So this is a stock that we started trading yesterday. And what was kind of interesting yesterday was that as you can see, if we look at the one minute chart, this is a stock that was not really on anyone's radar during the pre-market session. This was pre-market. And in the previous day, you can see there's no chart. Basically, this had no volume. And this actually is an important element. It's an important factor. What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna kind of walk you through what I would say are some of the traits in WHLR that we should look for in other stocks. Because over all of my years of trading, I've come to recognize that whenever you see a stock that goes up 1,000%, 1,500% in one day, or in two days, whatever the case may be, those stocks all share a similar set of common denominators. Now, it's important for you to learn what each of those are because then when you see another stock that meets that profile, maybe it hasn't started moving yet or maybe it's only up 20% or 30%. But now you know, wait a second, it meets the profile. This is one I should pay extra attention to. Or it also inversely helps you because you could say, oh, this stocks up 20, 30%, but you know what? It does not meet the profile of having the potential to do something really crazy. So maybe I should set lower expectations on it. And that would actually be a really good idea. So this is gonna be sort of what we're gonna work through in today's class. All right, so WHLR, one of the first things that we're gonna note is that on the daily chart, this two days ago, traded on a total volume of 200,000 shares. This was on just two days ago. Then yesterday it traded 80 million shares, and today so far it's traded 60 million shares, but the day's not done. So it's gonna keep trading, it's probably gonna get probably close to yesterday, but I bet it'll be just a little bit lower than yesterday. And I'll explain why in a second. So, okay, so now we've gotta ask the question, how does a stock go from having 200,000 shares of volume? One day to having 80 million shares of volume the next day. That is kind of an insane ratio of volume. Let's see, it's 80, so times four, it's a 320 times higher volume, 320 X, I mean, that's outrageous. Actually, no, it's more than that. It's 400 X, something like that. Doesn't really matter, but just the point is it's significant. And so I'm gonna jump on the whiteboard here, and I'm gonna start jiding down a couple of things. So, number one, let's see, my camera's kind of in the way, but that's all right, you can start my microphone, but you can see pretty well. So, number one, volume imbalance. Now, the reason we like the volume imbalance is because when we see a stock that previously has traded on, let's just say 200,000 shares of volume in this case, one of the things that we will know is that on these days here where it had really light volume, it didn't accumulate a lot of what we would call bag holders. People who bought and were holding and holding and hoping that this would go up. Sometimes what we see is stocks that trade on just high volume every single day. They accumulate a lot of people who are just holding positions and hoping for this big move. But since you only had 200,000 shares of volume the day before the move, there's not a history of people that are bag holding. In fact, if we look back, even in the last 90 days, none of these days have the type of volume that would have created a bag holder. So, a bag holder is someone on a day like this, for instance, who ends up buying at like $26 a share, a really big position. And then maybe as it goes lower, they add to it and they add to it and they add to it. So, let's say their cost basis initially was up here, but now they're in, you know, in an average cost of like 14, just for example, and they've got a huge position. Now, when the stock comes up, what are they gonna do? They're gonna sell. They're gonna get out break even if they can. And what bag holders do is they create upside resistance because once they get to their break even points, these are traders who have been holding for so long, they just wanna get out. And sometimes they're not gonna be on a way to get to break even, they're just gonna be like, you know what, I'm not down as much today after this big rally, I'm gonna take some profit. So, when I look back at some of those big days, one of the things I check is the volume. And when I notice that there's not a lot of volume on that day, that tells me that there are not a lot of traders who got trapped. Let's see if we can just for the saving example, find another stock that maybe has a bigger history of catching people off guard. Let's see, we could look at B-E-N-F maybe. I'm just gonna pull up a couple stocks that have been on the scan today. So, B-E-N-F, this one's not too bad. You've got a couple days with high volume, but they're green. So, probably not too bad. Let's see, LEDS, this one's not too bad on that one. Go Vex, those are mostly green candles. Hmm, about C-I-N-G. Oh, those are mostly green candles as well. I haven't kind of a hard time finding a good example. Well, you know, this is a little bit better back in here. So, back in here, you've got this high volume red day. So, this is a day where there was a lot of volume, but the stock was red, it came down. So, most likely, there were traders who got caught holding the bag on this day, and then they're holding it through all of here. And then there's another day, it pops up, and then there's a lot of selling, and it sells off. It's a high volume red day. So, those high volume red days, that's usually what I'm looking for, to try to understand if a stock has a high likelihood of bag holders. And, you know, the reason we want to pay attention to it is because when we see a stock squeezing up 20, 30%, I'm trying to understand, is there going to be a lot of resistance that we come into? So, my process for evaluating these stocks is, number one, the stock first has to hit my scanner. So, it hits my scanner right here, which you could see, this is WHLR, that hit the scanner this morning. It's at the top of the scan right now. It's up 116% on the day, which naturally is a pretty substantial move. But, this is the same way I found it yesterday. And, actually, one of the first ways I saw it, was when WHLR hit my high of day momentum scanner. So, I'm actually going to pull up my slides here for one second. So, let's see. So, I'm going to walk you through these five steps. So, step one, as part of my momentum day-traying strategy, is to find a stock that's moving. I don't make money buying something at five and selling it at five. I make money buying at five and selling at six, seven, eight, nine, or ten. And, I'd love to do that in a short period of time as possible. So, step one is using my scanners to see what's moving. Now, these scanners that you see right here in the background, this is part of the platform that I've developed. I have a development team that works for me. And, so, we've created this software that's available for members of Warrior Trading. By the way, if you want to do a two-week trial, there'll be a link pinned to the top of the comments in the link in the description, so you can check that out. It's two weeks for 20 bucks. That'll give you real-time market data with charts, scanners, newsfeed, and you can be in my chat room and listen to my audio video broadcast. So, what I'm looking for here is a stock that is moving up, but not just any stock that's moving up. One of the things that I know about my metrics is that, and let me just pull these up here for you. I do better on a certain type of stock. So, the stocks that I do better on, we're gonna go to detailed here, and then we're gonna go to, we can start with days and times. So, I know that I do better trading in the morning, between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. That's the window of time where I make the most money. Now, the market opens at 4 a.m., but most brokers don't come online until 7 a.m., and then the market's open until 8 p.m., but most people don't trade all the way till 8 p.m. In fact, because of the strategy that I trade, I do the best in the morning, and my strategy is to trade volatility that is the result of breaking news. So, when a stock has breaking news, that's gonna give it that volume, that boost of attention, and that's where I'm gonna be trading. So, usually news comes out in the morning, and then we're trading following that breaking news between 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11. Okay, so, number one, I do the best in the morning. Now, number two, based on price, I know that I do the best trading lower price stocks, which is under $20, you know, 20 to 40, 50, okay. Occasionally, I'll get some higher price trades in here. Some of these trades were on GameStop and a few others. So, it's not that I'll never trade something higher price, but, you know, by and large, my profit comes from stocks under 20. So, now, what I know is, of course, the volume imbalance is one thing to look for. Number two, price under 20. And actually, as a subset of this, in order for a stock to go up 400, 500, 800%, 1,000% or more, usually the price has to begin closer to, you know, $1 to $2. It usually begins on the cheap side, and there's something kind of interesting about this price range. When you have a stock that's cheap, that's at that kind of $1 mark, one of the things that I've noticed, and let's see if we've, let me find a good example of this here, we'll find one that's under a dollar here. So, DBGI, so I'll show you two level twos. So, this right here is VS. It's priced at $1.35 right now, and this is DBGI. DBGI is priced at 91 cents by 94 cents, but you can see that actually some of the quotes go down all the way to the 1-100th of a penny. Stocks below a dollar a share can trade down to the 1-100th of a penny, whereas stocks above a dollar a share don't trade down any lower than a one cent spread. So, one penny. So, 100th of a penny versus one penny, which means in order for a DBGI to go from, well, technically 90 cents to a dollar, there are up to 1,000 quote increments, because there's 10 pennies, and each of them have 100th of a penny quote prices. So, you can have 1,000 increments from 90 cents to a dollar, but from a dollar to a dollar 10 are only 10. So, it is infinitely, stocks can be infinitely more volatile once they break over a dollar. They can move a lot faster. When stocks are under a dollar, what often happens is traders will take very large positions because they don't expect the stock to move up that much, specifically short sellers. They'll start shorting 100, 200, 300,000 shares, but then suddenly when that stock gets over a dollar a share and it rips really quick from a dollar to a dollar 50, and they're in a 300,000 share position, they're down 150 grand. And then it's all of a sudden halted up, and now it's gapping 30 cents higher, and it dips and it rips through two, 225, 250, now they're down 450,000 dollars. And it's incredible how fast the losses build up when traders take huge size short on penny stocks. So, oftentimes the biggest percentage gainers do come from a stock that's cheaper, not necessarily below a dollar, but it could be around a dollar, $15, $20, and then start to pull away. So, in the case of WHLR, this one started right around a dollar and then began to pull away. I think it really surprised a lot of traders for a number of reasons. Okay, so number one, we look for that volume and balance. Number two, we like to see the prices under 20. And in fact, we know that often some of these big, big moves will start when the price is like between one and two, and usually it's under five. Because when a stock goes from five to 10, it's up 100%. But when a stock goes from two to four to six to eight to 10, suddenly you're up 300, 400, 500%. And the percentages add up really quickly. The reason the percentage is an important measurement is because the stock that is up the most is like a page one result, number one result on Google search. It gets the most attention each day. People are watching it, they're focusing on it, it therefore gets the most volume. And often that then results in volatility. So, WHR had the top spot now two days in a row. And this is the incredible thing, the float is like 300,000 shares. It's a tiny float and it's traded 62 million shares of volume. So, this creates a concept of float rotation. Okay, so number three, float rotation. So, one of the things that I know is that stocks with floats of under 10 million shares, and certainly even better when it's under one million shares, will have a higher float rotation just simply because float rotation is calculated by float and the number of shares of volume. So, if you have a stock with a one million share of float and 10 million shares of volume, you've got float rotation of 10. It's basically 10 to one float rotation. If you've got a stock with a, then let's just say, 10 million share of float with 10 million shares, the float rotation's only one. And the reason that float rotation is important is because when you have a stock that let's say has a 90 million share of float, 90 million shares available trade. And the stock is up 30%, or maybe 50%, or maybe even 100%. We had a great example of this yesterday on, was it AD, it was something, I could find in my metrics, but ADLR, no, it wasn't that. It was a stock that had a news headline with NVIDIA. So, NVIDIA took a, I don't know, $160 million stake in this company or gave him a $160 million investment. And so all of a sudden the stock goes up a ton. So, let's see. Do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do. Oh, APLD was the stock. So, APLD, this one has this news headline, which is a great news headline, but we'll get the float. The float is 93 million shares. So, even though it was up 100%, there were 93 million shareholders, well, not individual shareholders, but shares that were up that much and wanted to sell. So, how much volume did this trade yesterday? It traded on, as it turns out, 150 million shares of volume. So, it had a float rotation of about 1.5, which means most people, if they wanted to, could have sold their shares. But because of the amount of selling, that offset the buying and that prevented this stock from making like a 300, 400, 500% move. I would argue that if this stock had a 9 million share flow, instead of 93, that this same amount of volume would have resulted in the stock probably going 10 times higher than it went. Because of that imbalance between supply and demand. So, we have the same amount of demand, but a tenth of the supply, then the price goes up that much higher. Now, naturally, that's not exact science because as the price gets higher and higher and higher, the demand will start to dwindle a little bit because people are like, well, I can't buy it this high. But generally speaking, there's a very clear correlation between supply and demand. And when the supply side is smaller, the float smaller, and you still have high demand, you get these really rapid moves, and that creates float rotation. So, when we have a stock that has 10 times float rotation or higher, that's when we know that anyone who is up 200% on this investment, or 300%, they could have sold, they could have sold their entire position and been out of the trade, and the stock is still going higher. So, the float rotation tells us that we have the volume to absorb anyone who wants to sell. And that's really important. So, and then of course, the total float, so float rotation, and then the fact that usually these big moves happen on stocks with floats of under 10 million shares. And that's because usually when they're trading 50 million, 100 million shares of volume, the lower the float, the higher that float rotation ratio will be, and then the bigger the percentage moves that result. So, typically, when I see a stock that's a float of under 10 million shares, and it's between two and 20, you know, but sort of in this range, between a dollar and 20, right, in this range, these are two things I'm looking at initially and I'm like, okay, check, check. And the volume balance, as soon as I pull up the daily chart, I'm gonna see, wait, this had basically no volume. Now, this is also a great example, because this one is trading on average volume of about five million shares, five, 10 million shares a day. This stock with the Nvidia headline, it trades on heavy volume. So, it didn't have high relative volume in a serious way until it was like 40, 50 million shares. But on a stock that trades typically 200,000 shares of volume, it's got high relative volume when it hits a million. It's already four times higher than average. So, the relative volume kicks in real quick. Okay, so, step, and then, oh, let's just check back here. So, back to detailed. So, we talked about performance by price, and we'll talk about performance, we'll go over to instrument here, and then we're gonna scroll down and I'm gonna show you performance by relative volume. So, my performance by the instrument's relative volume right here is that basically all of my profit comes when a stock has 500 times higher volume today than average. So, I say a 5X. So, five times higher volume today than average. So, there's no doubt that WHLR had five times higher volume today, or yesterday than average, right? I mean, for sure. Now, what about today? Well, today, I would say it also still had five times higher volume than average, but you have to include yesterday's volume, and that's gonna bring up the average a little bit. But even still, it's still five times higher. So, five times higher, but you know what is gonna be interesting here, when we look, there's another metric that this is gonna highlight. So, I do well when the stock has five times higher volume than the 50-day average, but I also do well when the stock has kind of similar volume as the previous day, and today's a perfect example of that. I traded WHLR today, and it wasn't, the volume relative to yesterday wasn't five X. It was actually a little less than yesterday, right? So, it was probably in the 99, one X would be the same as yesterday, right? So, it was kind of right in this area, actually. And that's fine. That's a second day continuation. I actually did an episode last week on day two continuation or the two-day squeeze, three-day squeeze, when you have stocks that just continue to push higher and higher and higher. So, high relative volume, so we'll mark that down here. And high relative volume is sort of an extension of this one right here. The volume imbalance generally creates high relative volume. So, that's a subset of the volume imbalance. Much higher volume today than what's normal for the stock. Okay, so we've got the volume imbalance, we've got the price, we've got the float rotation, and oh, let's see. So, then the other thing is that I do the best one stocks are gapping up more than 2%, which doesn't, isn't a lot, but like clearly, there's a pattern here. So, what that means is that the stock is opening 2% higher than it closed on the previous day. And basically, all my profit is when the stock goes up at least 10%, the instrument movement. So, then therefore, we can add rate of change here of number four, rate of change minimum, 10%, 2% gap, and 10% up on the day. All right, so now what we're starting to do is we're putting together the common denominators. And this is starting with the common denominators just for the stocks that I make the most money on, that I trade. Now, the stocks that make 1,500% moves, that gets kind of exciting, because that's like the next level. It's not every day that we have a stock that makes that big a move. I mean, it happens often, but it's not every single day. So, what allowed WHLR to make such an incredible move? Well, WHLR did have news that came out yesterday. The news was, I mean, I don't know, it settled some lawsuit. There was a lawsuit dismissed this missile of a class action lawsuit here. So, you know, that was the headline. You know, that had been weighing on this company for a bit. And the lawsuit got dismissed. Okay, so all of a sudden that's dismissed, and the stock just starts ripping. It basically explodes. And the way I found this initially was this scanner right here is searching for stocks in the market right now that are up more than 2% of a float of less than 20 million shares. I said it a little higher. I have a couple of filters in there that are a little different, just to get cast a wider net, and then I can make the decision myself of whether or not I like it. And that has high relative volume, it's squeezing up right now. So, WHLR hit that scanner. And I was familiar with it. I'm like, oh, our old friend, WHR. I've traded this before, but it's a real estate investment trust. And what you might know is that recently, I've been doing really well-trading biotech stocks, pharmaceutical companies. A real estate investment trust is not a very kind of hot sector, usually, it's real estate. You know, slow and steady, it's real estate. So I didn't really expect a lot of it initially. And I think that's true of a lot of traders. Sometimes a stock has to really kind of surprise you in order for it to do something like this. And what that ends up resulting in is traders form a bias. They say it's a real estate investment trust. This thing is up from a dollar up to 330, it's up almost 200%, whatever. It's not gonna hold this level. I think I'm gonna short it, right? People start saying that. I'm gonna short it. This thing is gonna be back at a dollar before you know it. And so first it goes up to a dollar 60, it pulls back, it squeezes higher. Then it pulls back again, and you might recall, my first entry on it was at $1.99 right here. So I got it in at $1.90, something like that, $99. For the break of two, it squeezes up, then it dips down. Then it squeezes higher, and then it pulls back. And then it pushes even higher, and these were my trades that I got on yesterday. So I got some nice trades on it yesterday. And then it pulls back, and I wasn't paying much attention to it, and I had some errands to run. So I went to run my errands, and then all of a sudden here, at like one in the afternoon, this thing, this is what's always impressive. It had the opportunity to fade and essentially roll over. And then what happened right here is it reclaimed the volume-weighted average price, that orange line. And when it reclaimed the volume-weight average price, the bears lost control. And the bulls came into control. It popped up, it flushed down. It popped up, it flushed down. And those types of flush is there on high volume. I think those are short sellers who are shorting it, and they're trying to get the stock to break down. They're kind of bullying it. They're like, this thing's gonna drop, it's gonna drop, it's gonna drop. And then all of a sudden right here, it starts to rip. And when it starts to squeeze there, look at all the volume you have of buying. Relative to what you had through this period, huge volume comes in on the buying side. And it's a combination of short sellers covering and long traders jumping in, looking to anticipate the squeeze through a new high a day. So it goes through a new high a day up to four. It pulls back on what we call a micro pullback. So this is a one minute pullback, it dips down, and then it surges even higher. And this is a pattern that I trade all the time. So then we get this move higher right here, up to four, and then up to five, squeezes up right here. Unbelievable move, it actually halts up right there. So it's halted for five minutes. Then it resumes, it dips for a second, and then it rips up to six, it pushes higher, and it goes up to seven. And then you get this knife. We call that kind of like the jack knife candle just flushes back down hard. And it ended up coming back down quite a bit. So in that move right there, there's no question that some short sellers got squeezed out. They couldn't afford to keep holding it, and so they got squeezed. But some who have bigger accounts added and added and added, and then eventually it comes back down and they're like, all right, I'm right. And now you look at a chart like this and you think, okay, that was the high. You've got a high volume red candle. That's the high of day. This was as it turns out, the whole front side, and this is now the back side of the move. But remember right here, you might have thought that that was the back side, because you had this nice peak here, and then it kind of peaked and it rolled over. The MACD crossed right here, and when the MACD crossed, kind of game over. And it was, the bears were in control. Until suddenly they weren't, we had another leg up. And so once again, the bears are in control. They're in control, the stock is selling off. It's after hours, 7 p.m., 7.30, 8 p.m., after hours. And then what happens at 4 a.m.? 4 a.m., European traders and traders that are just awake early, see this stock, and all of a sudden it's really remarkable. Let's, I'm gonna go so you can see the individual candle. All right, so we're just gonna go candle by candle here. We will further forward. Do, do, do, do, do, do, do. Okay, so coming in here, all of a sudden it's looking, it's looking pretty weak. But what do you mark out? You always mark the previous high. What was the previous high on this thing? So the previous high was 670. And then you also might mark out some other levels that were in play. So a little bit of maybe resistance there, and a little bit maybe at the high of that pivot. And one of the other things you always check, of course, is your daily chart. So when WHOR first hit my scanner, I looked at the daily chart and I said, well, it's got a lot of room to the 200 moving average, nowhere near the 200. It's done reverse splits. The stock's been beaten up. Yes, it's popped a couple times. I tried trading it. Didn't really find much success with it. You know, so I've kind of been over it. But all of a sudden here, it's coming back up. So really no nearby resistance. And not gonna be a lot of resistance from bag holders, because you don't have any really high volume days, not in recent history. So for those reasons, the chart looks pretty good. And then all of a sudden here at 4 a.m., it pops from 450 right up to 529. Starts hitting scanners and next thing you know, it goes up to six and 650. Now these scanners start working at 4 a.m. So right at 4 a.m., boom, it's already hitting the scanner and it's already gapping up. Now it's opening higher than the previous days close. And next thing you know, it squeezes here all the way up to a high of 895. So he broke through the previous days high of 673. It comes back down and retests that level. And notice the volume profile. High volume buying candles, light volume selling. And now you watch this for the next like higher, boom. It breaks through, and this is so clean. It breaks right here through that pivot, breaks through the high, and the next thing you know, it's printing 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. It goes all the way up there to a peak of $15 a share. Now pre-market, the volume is usually pretty light and it ends up rejecting coming right back down. You could trade pre-market with a lot of brokers. Thinkorswim won't let you trade before 7 a.m. So you wouldn't have been able to trade before 7 a.m. And you wouldn't have been able to participate in this. And that actually creates a new problem. Because now you have this stock that's made this massive move and some people on Thinkorswim might have been holding and would have loved to have sold, but they can't. Now that's kind of interesting. They could even have a sell order out for 100,000 shares at 11, but that order is not online. So the stock's gonna go right through it. It's not gonna have resistance at that sell order because that sell order's not on the book yet because Thinkorswim's not online yet. So all of a sudden you get this low liquidity, high volatility period where you get this squeeze, this big move, and I would have loved to have traded it. I just, you know, it's very rare that I'll get up at four in the morning to trade. I've only done it a few times. And this, I didn't have any reason to really think that this was gonna happen. And I think like I said, you had shorts who were confident and swing trading it to the short side. Because one of the other things that you had going for you, to the short side on this, if you pull up the SCC filings for WHLR, you could see that they've filed a prospectus recently. So a prospectus gives them the right to sell additional shares on the open market through an offering. So they're putting all the shareholders on notice that they could raise up to sell up to 20 million shares. That's a lot of shares, especially for a stock that's a float of 200,000 shares or 300,000, whatever it is. So they potentially are gonna dilute the float by like, you know, a 200X ratio, which is unbelievable. And then they could do that and they've put shareholders on notice. So I think a lot of short sellers are like, if number one is a real estate investment trust, number two, they have this prospectus, they're gonna do an offering. It's only a matter of time. They're gonna do an offering. They're gonna sell shares. They're gonna then use that money to go invest into real estate projects. It's not a sexy company. It's not gonna do anything crazy. This thing is gonna roll over. And then next thing, you know, it goes up. It's going to five to six to seven. And some of those, usually the brokers that will let you short stocks, they're online from four AM to eight PM. And they have risk managers that are there because they're gonna see this and be like, uh-oh, we gotta get someone out of this trade. And so even if they're not awake, the broker will clear you out of that trade for a loss if something like this is happening. If you had a huge position at five, six dollars a share, and all of a sudden you're getting a margin call at eight, they're just gonna market you out of the position essentially. So it's a limit order because it's pre-market, but they'll just get you out. And then next thing, you know, it goes higher. So this could have been, you know, volume from a few really big short sellers who were getting auto-liquidated by their broker. It's possible. I don't know, but it's not impossible. So at the end of the day, I will probably never know for sure what caused this move because there wasn't fresh news out on it. Everything that we knew yesterday still was true today. Still has the offering risk, had the same headline from yesterday about the class action lawsuit being dismissed. So it didn't really make a lot of sense other than short squeeze, some shorts got squeezed. That's my best guess. And probably because they formed a bias, you know, of all the reasons why this stock, you know, should have failed. But anyways, up it goes. So now you get this huge move. It comes back up at 4.30, it rejects and then drops down and then kind of comes up. And then what ends up happening as we go through the day is coming up to 6.10, it has a bigger sell-off, higher volume here it sells off. Then it forms a bear flag. The bear flags are easier to visualize on the five minute chart. So I'll switch this to the five minute time frame. Okay, there we go. So we dropped down sideways, roll over, sideways, roll over. Sideways, roll over. And then I took a trade down here, as it started to curl back up. I actually took the trade right in here. Once we had that first step up and then we broke the top of that stair to the upside, I was like, okay, here we go. So I got some trades in this area here. And actually that's where I got all my trades on. It was right in here, which is kind of funny because typically that's not the area. You're gonna see me doing a lot of trading on this type of stock. It was the backside of the move. Now I thought if this reclaimed volume weight average price, there was the potential that we could squeeze back up to the high, not impossible. Could even still happen, it's not too late, but clearly there's a lot of selling. And we still have the offering risk and you wanna be careful not overstaying your welcome on day two, day three of stocks that have some type of shelf registration or prospectus out to sell shares because all of a sudden, the news could come out that they've sold X number of shares at X price. And if the price is lower than the current trading price, boom, it's gonna go right down to that level. I mean, I don't think they would sell it a dollar share, but you never know. One of the things I've noticed is that these companies, they work with underwriters and some of the underwriters are pretty sophisticated and they're good at getting the company the best price and they really understand the market, but not all of them. Some of them just press the sell button and they just, they don't even, or they'll do a private placement with someone and it's not a very good deal for the company, but they get the money and so they might shoot themselves in the foot and sell a really low price and that'll definitely hurt the value of the stock for all the current shareholders. So that is a risk. So I'm not super inclined, you know, take any more trades on it, but the fact that I was trading it in this area here, so I actually broke the ice today on a different stock. I started trading B-E-N-F and I'll do a recap of my trades from today in a second, but B-E-N-F was the first stock I traded and the reason I traded B-E-N-F was because it was squeezing up and it was a fresh move that started today. And so at first rallies sells off and when it came back up right here, that's where I got it. So I got in around 250 and we got that squeeze up to about three. I kind of over traded it, I didn't trade it super well and I sort of hoped it was gonna go higher, but in any case, I broke the ice on that and then I switched to WHLR as it started to curl. And the reason I was able to do as well as I was on it was because even with just 4,500 share positions, we got nice moves. So right from here, this spot right there, this breaks 7.75, it goes up to 8.850 all the way to nine. So almost a dollar a share. So it's 4,500 bucks. Now, that was one trade I got. I got another trade in here. I got another trade in this area and I got another trade when we finally broke over the VWAP rate right through here. And then when it failed to hold, I got out and I was like, nah, it's too choppy and I got my last trade right here on a dip in a rip, but I didn't wanna push my luck too much. Girl, go lay down. Go on, go lay down. So that was WHLR there. Those are the actual areas I traded. But typically where I love trading these is in this area. This, I mean, I would have loved to have gotten these trades here and that's when I could have done really well, but it just happened at a time that I was unable, you know, I missed it. One of the things though that I'll say that's really nice about the strategy that I trade is that because I'm trading momentum on typically the one minute chart, there's a lot of opportunities. So even if I miss a couple, there'll be a lot more. When you start trading on the 15 minute or the 60 minute chart, it takes longer for opportunities to form. You might only see one or two a day. And if you miss them, well, got away till tomorrow. So with a more active strategy, I mean, you can look at my calendar of trades here, but I usually find opportunities every single day. So this is this year so far. And you could see, I mean, I haven't missed a day. This day here in July, okay, missed this day. But I had doctor's point with that day. So I was out that day. That was the fourth of July. So the market was closed. June, I think this was June-teeth. We had a market holiday. Maybe it was the Monday. I can't remember. There's a couple of holidays in here. But anyways, you know, looking at the year, there's 250 trading days. And I might have three or four days a year. That I sit down and I say, I don't see anything I like. It's really rare. It's very rare. And then there's days where I'm sick or something comes up, but that's pretty rare too, because I usually show up pretty much rain or shine. So now let's step back to our list over here. So we've got our list of, you know, essentially what I would say more or less are the criteria for a stock to make a big move. We've got the imbalance, we've got the price, we've got the float rotation, we've got the rate change. Number five. What we'd like to see in a perfect world is a news catalyst, because the news catalyst creates the demand. This is what creates the demand. The demand doesn't just come from nowhere. It comes from some type of news catalyst. Now I suppose sometimes demand seems to come from just about nowhere, but that's not as common. So usually we have a news catalyst that's driving the momentum. So that's what creates the fluctuation in price, right? And the rate of change. And then when you've got a news catalyst on a stock that has the right flow and the right price, total just price per share, that's when things get really exciting. And the volume imbalance is of course a big one too. So my process each day is, and this is kind of the incredible thing. I was just looking back at, so this is two, four, six, eight, nine years of trading data in this platform. And so in this platform, I was looking back to see other day at January of 2017, because this was when I started my small account challenge with $583.15. And I was just looking back at it just to kind of, I was just talking about it a little bit in an episode. And I was just noting like, this is seven years ago, these, the strategy I was trading is the exact same as today. It's the same process. Now, it's true that I've had some, I've had a couple turning points since then that have allowed me to scale my strategy and do even better than I was doing then. One of them was learning how to do dip trades during the COVID pandemic. Another was the sort of recent change around trying to identify the type of days that are more likely to be read. And if I can identify through sort of a similar approach of like, what are the common denominators of a red day? And how can I identify them as early as possible so the loss can be tiny? What are the common denominators of a stock with home loan potential? How do I identify as early as possible so I can make as much on? So it's making these kind of observations. So the one about identifying red days is something that I've just implemented in the last, in June. And that's resulted in this current hot streak that I'm on, as you could see right here from the end of June, which is sort of when I started implementing it, all the way it's carried me through July, through August, and now into the first week of September, which has been really phenomenal. And I'm just trying to ride this momentum as long as I can, and I'm feeling pretty good about this system that I've gotten dialed in. If you want to learn more about that, if you do the two week trial each morning, I'm kind of breaking down how I'm approaching trading and the rules that I'm following in terms of position management. So I can keep my red days as small as possible. Now, one thing I'll say about today is it actually started the day by going in the red. I broke a little bit of a rule. I started on my first trade on BNF, being a little bit too aggressive. And I got caught up in a little bit of FOMO. I saw this big move on WHLR, and then BNF starts popping up, and I'm like, all right, I'm all in. And so I lost 1,500 on my first trade on it at about 250. It dropped down, stopped me out, and then I got back in when it came back up, and I made back that 1,500. I actually got myself up $2,000 on it, and then I gave back 1,000 off the top on that rejection. So I'm only up 1,000 on BNF, and I kind of over traded it. I went red 1,500 to green 2,000, $3,500 swing back to sort of here. So I had to kind of slow myself down a little bit today, because I felt like the FOMO of missing WHLR was kind of getting to me a little bit. But if we jump back on to my slide deck here, so step one is finding the percentage gainer. And I'm using my scanners to do that. The scanners are searching the market in real time, using real time market data, which is why it costs $20 for the trial, because we've got to pay for our data. But it's searching real time data for stocks that meet my criteria. Once I see a stock that meets the criteria, I'm trying to see what's the catalyst that's driving this higher? So I've got this news feed that's embedded right here. We've got an API into the community, or into the chat feed here, so you can pull up the news right away. So you can see, oh, what's the news that's driving this thing higher? Now, on a day like today, we had a number of stocks that were squeezing without very clear catalyst, which speaks to the FOMO in the market, right? When these stocks get really strong, next thing you know, stock two, stock three, stock four, start popping up, even though they don't have a strong catalyst. And then step number three is technical analysis. So my due diligence is broken into two steps. The first is doing fundamental analysis, the second is doing technical analysis. So the fundamental analysis is checking the news headline, and then the technical analysis is pulling up the chart. Now, another element of fundamental analysis is to go into the SEC filings and check to see if they have a shelf registration and to check to see what their balance sheet looks like. So you could check the condensed balance sheet, consolidated balance sheet here, and you could see what their current, and of course, is a real estate investment trust. So what their holdings are, and these are in thousands. So they've got, I mean, really, a substantial amount of assets, but naturally they've got a lot of liabilities here in the form of debt and loans to carry these properties. So that's their balance sheet that's got a lot on it. But then we want to look at cashflow and the actual revenue or net profit or loss, and they're operating at a loss, and that's obviously a problem. I mean, especially for real estate, because you really want to see real estate covering its costs, because if it's not covering its costs, then you're betting on the property being worth more when you go to sell it. But you're operating at a loss in the interim, and if you can't sell it as soon as you want, that's a problem. Or if you have to refinance your debt, which is a problem for a lot of these companies who are having a refinance debt, because they did fixed variable adjustable rates, and now, and I don't know specifically with this company, but I'm speaking generally, now with their interest rates having gone up so much in the last two years, their cost of interest to maintain these mortgages has ballooned, and that's all of a sudden thrown off the ROI on the position. So anyways, I can't speak directly to this company, because I haven't looked at everything that they own or how they're structuring their debt, but it does appear that they're operating at a loss. So that's part of the fundamental analysis. Now, I only proceed to do fundamental analysis if I first, I only proceed to look at the SEC filings and do that part of fundamental analysis. If first, I've done the technical analysis and it all checks out. So that means I've pulled up the chart, I'm like, okay, I like it, it's moving. And to be honest, in the first leg of a move, if a stock is squeezing up like this, in these moments right here, the fundamentals, to be honest, don't really matter, because in these moments, the stock is getting incredibly disconnected, and there's just an incredible amount of emotion in the market. And we've seen this with stocks from small caps, you know, some penny stocks all the way up to your Tesla and in videos, that when they get sort of hyped up and people are buying it, their PE ratios are crazy outrageous. They make no sense, but traders just keep buying them up. So I trade the volatility as a day trader, I am a hunter of volatility and I have to be a manager of risk. So ultimately, I do have to think about the risk of getting caught in and offering and things like that. But during those first few minutes, when a stock starts squeezing, that point really is, number one is their fresh news, that's the reason this is moving up. And if there is, what does the chart look like? Now in this case, this didn't have fresh news, but it was clearly continuation from yesterday. So it was easy to understand that the catalyst wasn't fresh news, but it was most likely a short squeeze. So shorts were getting squeezed out. And that's a valid catalyst and that's something that I'm happy to trade. So in this case, right here in this area, I'm just getting dialed in on a chart and I'm looking for that first pullback. I call this a micro pullback or the first AB, it's actually almost like an ABCD pattern and it's just, it's really clean. I mean, we love seeing patterns like that. So once I've gone through step two and three of due diligence, technical and fundamental analysis, I move on to step four, which is where I actually execute the trade. Now, this is a trade that of course I took the trades yesterday were during regular hours, but the trades this morning were during the pre-market session. So if you're using a broker like Thinkors Swim, when you pull up your account, and I'll just pull up Thinkors Swim for you for one second. So when you, I don't know why that button is humongous, but whatever, when you pull up Thinkors Swim here and you say, oh, I wanna buy this stock, whatever, you have to change pre-market your order from day to extended, otherwise it won't work. And you have to remember you can't do buy market or sell market pre-market or after hours. So market orders and stop orders don't work pre-market and you have to change your order type from day to good till extended hours. So those are some changes you have to make in order to trade these pre-market or after hours. Now, in the software that I'm using right here, this software is called light speed trading. And I'll say, I say this all the time, but I want you guys to know that I don't have any affiliate relationship with light speed or with any other broker for that matter. So if you use them, use them if you want, but if you don't, it doesn't make any difference to me, I'm just sharing with you the tools that I use. And I've been using this tool since 2000. Well, I, let's see, yeah, it was 2017 that I set up this account and I had a different account before that, but I started my small account account challenge in 2017. So that's when this kind of began. So for at least eight years, maybe nine years, I've been using light speed and I've been happy with them. And the nice thing with this platform is that you don't have to change your time and force. A day order works from nine a.m., sorry, from four a.m. until eight p.m. So you don't have to switch your orders around. You could do market day, which is just during regular trading hours, but nobody does that. And then these are limit orders. So I just make sure I put my order just a little bit above the current price and then click the buy button. And what I love about this is that it's super quick. I can get in, I can get out and I can trade pre-market. Now, the reason I like to trade pre-market is because a lot of times these companies are putting out news pre-market. And since we've got that news coming out pre-market, that's the time that I'm gonna wanna be aggressive and trade the breaking news, right? I'm focusing on trading volatility. So it makes sense that I wanna trade when the news comes out. And in fact, something they'll say is that during the pandemic, prior to the pandemic, back in 2017, 2018, 2019, if we looked at my metrics, they would actually look a little different. So I'll show you. I didn't trade before 9.30. I didn't trade pre-market. I didn't because there was no volume. Nobody traded pre-market. So if we look at my metrics here from, let's see, January 01, 2017 through, let's see, we'll do, how do we do this? Oh, this thing's always such a pain. It's like, I'm just gonna go like this. I'll apply it and then I'll change it. So 2017 through 2020, sure, that's fine. So if we look at this window here, and we look at detailed, and we look at, let's see, days and times, you could see that I didn't start trading until 9 a.m. And if we broke this into 30-minute increments, you'll see I didn't start trading until 9.30 opening bell. I did not trade pre-market. And that was because there was no volume pre-market. Stocks would have news that would be released pre-market, and traders would wait until the opening bell. They would wait until 9.30 before trading those stocks. It's kind of like just a funny sort of legacy thing that we even still have regular trading hours because ultimately the market starts trading at 4 a.m. But not for every stock, that's the thing. For stocks who don't have news, there is still no volume pre-market. And the reason that you're not allowed to have stop orders or market orders pre-market or after hours because you would get so much slippage on your order, market makers would just abuse you and you would lose a ton of money. So anyways, during the pandemic, all of a sudden, I had this day where I'm sitting here and we're watching a stock, it was on the top of our watch list, and we're like, okay, this one looks really good for a trade here into the open. And all of a sudden, it was the craziest thing, traders, the stock started squeezing pre-market. All of a sudden, it was, oh look, by 30 minute increment, all of a sudden, right here, people started trading before 9.30. And so in this little window here, I was like, okay, I'm gonna start earlier. And so if we even go back a little bit tighter to maybe May right here. So in May, let's see, by 30 minute increments. So May, I took like a couple of trades. This was the very beginning. It was like a couple, it was mostly 9.30, but then all of a sudden, there was a couple of trades that happened just before, just like a little earlier. And then, yeah, so then between May 1st, or May 31st, I guess, June 1st, in other words, June 1st and July, all of a sudden, everyone started trading pre-market and they weren't waiting. And then boom, all of a sudden, in that little window, my profit shifted. And I started trading earlier. And now we look at it today. And what we know is that prior to 2020, I didn't trade pre-market really at all. And now pre-market accounts for probably 25 to 30% of 25% of my total profit. So, and that's just been in the last four years. So you have to be able to adapt to changes in the market. And that was a change that occurred really, just all of a sudden, people just started buying sooner. And it was like, well, either adapt with the market or get left behind. And so, I had to adapt. Now, WHLR may tend to just say adapt with the market and wake up at 4 a.m. or get left behind. And I guess you'd be right today. But fortunately, we haven't been seeing this too often. That's great to see, but realistically, I mean, honestly, the volume was great too. But realistically, we haven't been seeing too much of those moves really, really early. So, you know, but something to pay attention to. It could change and, you know, you've got to be willing to adapt to the change. But hopefully, we don't have to start waking up at 3.45 for the 4 a.m. opening bell. I mean, if that happens, I'm gonna have to move. I can't possibly. But anyways, I know some of you guys probably wake up that early anyways for one reason or another. So, there's worse things in life, especially if it gave you the opportunity to trade something going up 1,500% in, you know, two days, which is absolutely incredible. So, I hope that this has been a good walkthrough in my process. One of the things that is important is moving on to step five and doing your analytics, doing your technical, your analysis of your traits, getting into the details there and looking at where you make the most money, your accuracy, your profit loss ratio and everything else. And I'll say that this, you know, this is looking good for power hour, but it's kind of playing with fire for me to take any trades at this hour, because you start to get these jack knives and unless this thing was ripping, and I mean, like breaking through 15 and going up to 20, $25 a share, I wouldn't want to break the ice on it. You know, and I would be breaking the ice because I haven't taken any trades in like, you know, almost six hours. So, to come back in and then take a trade here would be, yeah, you gotta know when to walk away, you gotta know when to quit. So, for those that want a reading recommendation, I'll give you, I'll give you one here. This is some good reading maybe for over the weekend, get it on audio book, quit by Annie Duke, and she's got another book called Thinking and Bet. So, check those out. And if you haven't already done a two-week trial here at Warrior Trading, we'd love to have you check out the software, use the scanners, use the chatroom, see what you can do over the next couple of weeks, as always in the simulator, but test it out, see what it's like, we'd love to have you join us. So, hope to see you in the chatroom, I'll be streaming bright and early, 7 a.m. Monday morning. So, I hope to see you there. Have a great weekend, and make sure you subscribe to channel because I got a couple more uploads coming this weekend. I'll remind you guys, as always, that trading is risky. My results aren't typical, so manage your risk, take it slow, and I'll see you back here, bright and early Monday morning.