# 49. How Losing the RIGHT WAY = Winning at Day Trading
# id=wF4J730MZr4 (whisper base.en)

In today's episode, I'm going to talk about how to be a great loser. In order to find long-term success as a day trader, you're going to have to get really good at, you know what, I can't do this, not with the positive music. Today's a red day for me, and I don't feel like a winner, I feel like a loser, and I know it's important to be a good loser, but it doesn't feel right. I'm red. I just finished a 47 consecutive Green Day hot streak today with a max loss. Well, I thought about that for a minute, and I thought this is a great opportunity to teach you guys this one technique that I implemented back in June that has resulted in this streak. I'm going to teach you how to be a great loser. So when you say Ross, you're a loser, I'm going to say thank you. Being a good loser is what it's all about, because here's the reality. There is no such thing as a day trader who's right 100% of the time, and there's no such thing as a strategy that has a 100% win rate. The good news about the strategy that I trade is each day I typically find 10 to 15 trades. Since my accuracy hovers between 65 and 70%, that means most days I can be green as long as I don't dig myself a whole with a couple of big losses at the very beginning of the day, because when that happens, that can result in a downward spiral because you deviate from the strategy. You start to get desperate, you start to get frustrated, you become emotionally compromised, and next thing you know, you're lowering your quality threshold from A quality setups down to B and C quality setups, just grasping at straws and hoping not to close the day red. Now I didn't do that today. I actually started the day with two losses, which was disappointing enough, and this was the beginning of my day. I kind of mapped it out here. So I started with a couple of losses, and then right here at 8 a.m., we had a stock with breaking news, and during this stretch right here, I made $10,000. I recovered from just right around just at my max loss all the way to just under my daily goal, and then I had the misfortune of catching two full-size losses that brought me right back down to red. This happens. And you know what? This is going to be the case where it's too late in the day for me to stage another recovery. I already had one recovery, I'm probably not going to be able to do it again, so I have to accept that today is going to be a red day, and I'm going to try to show and lead by example how you can be a good, if not great, loser. So let's go ahead and jump into this class. These are the topics that we're going to cover. We're going to start with my just sort of an overview of a discovery that I made about my accuracy on red days. It was in June that I kind of had this epiphany, and it's sort of crazy that I've been trading for as long as I have without having not been aware of this. But for whatever reason, in June, it came to me that my accuracy on red days was really poor. This should have been obvious because what I tend to do is on red days, I end up overtrading. I churn a bunch of shares, I'm getting in and getting out. I start getting kind of a sense of frustration and disappointment that I'm red and a little bit of desperation to try to recoup losses and finish in the green. And that desperation results in me reducing my quality threshold, trading lower quality setups, which then reduces my accuracy, reduces my profit loss ratio, and hurts my confidence. And all of that can lead to multi-day sort of red spirals where I have a real setback and I feel really deflated, which I know a lot of you guys have experienced in your trading. And so when we look at the month of June, it's not even that it looks that bad. I mean, I finished with $35,000 a profit, but I had a bigger red day here. And then this is a day where I took 18 trades, but just was spinning my wheels. This is a day I took 24 trades, spun my wheels, made nothing. These were two decent days. And then this is a day where I took 35 trades and I had nothing to show for it. And I was like, this is ridiculous. I just feel, and I got to a point where I was like, I feel like my accuracy is just garbage on these days. And so then I actually pulled up this report of win days and lose days, which I win day loss days, which I could have done at any time, but for whatever reason, I just hadn't. And I noticed that on my losing days, my accuracy is only 51%. So I was like, wait a second. This is actually kind of substantial because my winning, my accuracy on winning days is 71%. And I'm green most of the time. So how does my accuracy drop this much between green days and red days? And I felt like it was not because of a change in the strategy. It was because of a change in the headspace, the mental mindset that I was coming to the table with. And of course, with a poor accuracy, my average losers also changed quite a bit. So my average winners were kind of similar on both red days and green days, $1,100, $1,300. But my average losers on a green day, only a thousand. Whereas my average losers on a red day are 2,800, almost three times as big. That is substantial. So that kind of led me to this thought process of, how can I discover that today is going to be a red day sooner so I can reduce my share size? And so I can slow down. Like if there was a way that I could know this was going to be a red day at the very beginning, then of course I could just choose not to trade at all. But what's like the next earliest trigger? And so I started looking at a lot of my red days to see what my pattern was. And in fact, a lot of them did end up beginning kind of like this, where I start kind of deep in the red. And then from there, I just spiral. So if we looked at this kind of on a P&L graph of the day, it would start here at zero. This is zero on the day. I take a good size loss, maybe I have a small recovery and then another good size loss. Another small recovery starting to get desperate, another good size loss. And now I'm below max loss, just like that. And I'm like, okay, I've got to stop. And it's like, man, where in here could I have intervened to be a good loser and to walk away red just like this level and not take those next two big steps down? So that was kind of the thing that I was asking myself. And this was what I ended up discovering. So number one, I noticed that of course my accuracy on losing days was pretty bad. And I also just looked sort of big picture. And I was like, you know, when you look big picture, I've got a slightly inverted profit loss ratio. My average winners are $1,300. My average losers are $1,400. Now since my accuracy is about 68% over this longer period of time, I'm still in the green. I'm still profitable. But I was like, the problem here is that the average losers are getting drawn down by the red days. But when we compare, and if we went here to the dashboard, if we compared winning days to losing days, the fact is I'm green far more than I'm red. These are 1600 winning days, 400 losing days. So I really felt like my problem was that I was not good enough at identifying that today is going to be a red day and adjusting accordingly. I think ultimately every active trader needs to be able to lean in and double down on the market's hot and then ease off the throttle and the market's cold. Now some people will advocate, Ross, don't do that. Just keep the exact same amount of risk on every trade you take. You know, you're right 67, 68% of time. Just take $1,000 of risk on every trade and there you go. You know exactly what you're getting. But here's the thing that I've noticed. In a hot market, there's more liquidity in the market, which means you can take larger position sizes and with larger position sizes, naturally, you can make more money. But if you try to take that same position size during a cold market, you'll get more slippage on your entry and on your exit. So based on just sort of the market dynamics, during a colder market, you really have to ease off the throttle. You have to reduce share size, otherwise you're just giving money to the market makers and the algorithms that are giving you that slippage on your fill. And then on the flip side, when the market's hot, you're kind of under leveraging by not taking advantage of the increased liquidity and the fact that you could have taken that trade with 10,000 shares instead of just 2,000. So really, you have to be able to sort of ease on and ease off the throttle. I'm not trying to say it's like a race and obviously to get around to track the fastest, you got to go fast down the straightaway, then slow down on the corner because trading is a marathon. It's not a sprint. But at the same time, you have to be more dynamic and adaptive to market conditions. You can't just sort of do same share size every single day because you're going to be really under maximizing on your opportunities when things are hot and nobody wants to do that. Okay. So given the fact that I'm going to adjust share size based on the day, my problem essentially was that I was continuing to trade with big share size as if it's a hot day even when it's cold. So accuracy on red days was suffering. That was bringing down the profit loss ratio. So that was suffering, right? The big losers, which were typically happening on those red days, hurting the profit loss ratio. And so I felt like I need to trade smaller size on days when I'm more likely to be red. And if I could do that, it would result in improving my profit loss ratio. And maybe it would improve my accuracy and my confidence would go up as well. So this is the new technique that I came out with to help myself manage risk. Now by the way, this new technique was born from my frustration with going deep into the red on my first two trades and then having to spend the rest of the morning slowly clawing my way back to slightly green or maybe slightly red. I just was so frustrated with how many times I did that in June. So I was like, for the love of God, you need to stop digging yourself a huge hole on your first trade. So this was the technique that I came up with. I said, let's start by breaking the ice each day with a quarter of my full size position. That way I can just kind of determine if today is maybe likely to be a red day or green day based on my first few trades. Because you know what the fact is, my best days start by hitting a really solid trade on that first trade. But then I proceed to take 30 or 40 more trades. When we look at some of the best days I've had this year, we can go, let's take a look. Let's look at the month of July. The month of July, I had two days back to back where I was up 40 plus thousand dollars. So let's look at how many trades I took on those days. All right. So we're going to look at July here, boom, July and let's see 68 trades and 104 trades. Now on another day here, I took 12 trades, right? This day was three trades. This day was two trades. So it makes sense on the day when the market's colder, trade less. And that's exactly what I started doing here at the beginning of July at the end of June. And then on days when the market's hot, okay, lean in, be aggressive. So that was kind of, that's sort of how I felt. Now I recognize that I was going to be sacrificing a little bit of profit maybe on that first trade because I'd be trading it with smaller size. But my hope was that if that trade was a loser, that at least the loss would be small and it would be easier for me to recover from it versus if I was trading that first position with full size. All right. So the, so I'll back this off here and move that out of the way. So I said, I'm going to start each day with a quarter of my full size position. And then I'm not going to increase until I'm up first 20 cents a share. So for me, based on where I was at in June, I was like, what's my full size position realistically? It's like 20,000 shares, you know, I don't take 20,000 on every trade, but that's a pretty full size position. So I said, well, let's say 5,000 shares is, you know, about a quarter of that full size position. Some days I might not go to 20,000, I might only go to 10,000, 15,000, another day I might go to 30,000, but let's just start with this. So I said, all right. Well, if 5,000 shares is quarter position, then 20 cents times 5,000 shares would equal $1,000. So I said, until I'm up $1,000 on the day, do not increase your share size. And so by doing that, what ended up happening was right away, I noticed a huge improvement. So like this, these were some of the first days where I was doing it. It was the beginning of the new month and I was like, well, I'm not getting my cushion. I'm only up $318, the market's slow, so I'm just going to have to stick with 5,000 shares. The next day, same thing, 5,000 shares. The next day, boom, all of a sudden we get some momentum. As soon as I'm up over $1,000, I'm taking the cap off. So it's like, I'm just starting each day with the training wheels on and then proving I kind of have my balance and I can go, but if I don't, then the training wheels don't come off. So then this day on Friday, after the market holiday on July 4th, another slow day. But then we came back on Monday and boom, a really solid green day. And then three really four solid green days in a row. So now I'm like on a little bit of a roll this day here, 51 trades, but each day starting the same way, max of 5,000 shares time up $1,000. And on a lot of these days, I was getting the $1,000 of profit in that first trade. And then by trade two, I was already up to, you know, 7,500 or 10,000 shares. So I was sizing up quickly. But on some of these days, I did go red. But because I was trading with a cap of 5,000 shares, I wasn't going too deep in the red. I was losing 20 cents, maybe I was down a thousand bucks, $1,500. These weren't big losses. And then look at this. On this day here, on July 16th, the market's slow again, and I only end up taking four trades. I make my way up to 3,200. Just doesn't end up being a huge, a huge green day. So this epiphany that I had in June, at the end of the day, resulted in me discovering and creating this new position management technique that I've applied kind of as a layer on top of my trading strategy. It isn't by itself a strategy because it's not telling us the type of stocks to buy or where to get in or where to get out. It's really focused on managing the downside risk without capping upside potential. In other words, learning how to go slow and stay throttled down on a day when the market is cold and choppy. So I avoid over trading and putting myself in a position where I go deep in the red and then get desperate and then trade low quality setups, reducing my accuracy, reducing my profit loss ratio and hurting myself confidence. And instead, on those days, just stay slow until either things get better, which can happen as quickly as one stock having breaking news, which is what happened today, or things just sort of stall out, we run out of time and I say, all right, it's a red day and that's all right. A small red day is fine. But on the other hand, isn't stopping me from scaling up quickly on a day when the market is hot. So during this period of time, I've actually had my two best days of the entire year and they exceeded any of my green days from last year. So it's actually my best two green days in more than two years to trade it, which is phenomenal. And at the same time, the red day that I'm sitting with right now is right at my daily max loss of minus 5,000. That is tolerable. So this is, I mean, if this is the worst case, you know, knock on wood, this is something that I can absolutely live with. Now if I'm only read once every 47 days, that would be incredible. I'm not sure that I'm going to go coming out of today and lead into another 47 day green streak. But I think it's also important to recognize that it's not important to have consecutive green days. What's important is to have consecutive days of discipline. Discipline is number one. Focus on the process. Profits are a byproduct. Okay. So since this new technique for managing risk and managing positions isn't about the strategy specifically, I do want to take a moment to share with you the actual trading strategy that I've been implementing during this period of time. So you're all in the same page because this is also really valuable. So for me, I've broken it down into three steps. Step one is finding stocks to trade. I'm a volatility trader. Every day trader ultimately is because we don't make money buying something and selling it at the same price. So we want things that are moving and usually what creates volatility is some type of news. Now if you trade futures or you trade currencies or you trade indices, you may trade economic news that comes out that affects the entire market. But if you're trading individual stocks like I do, you're looking for stocks that have breaking news today and that is what's going to give them a reason to buck the trend of the overall market. So I'm in a kind of a fortunate position where I can actually look back here at years and years of trading data. This is over $13 million of gross profit and 27,000, nearly 28,000 trades right here. And this tells me exactly the type of stocks I make the most money on. Now I learned the type of stocks I make the most money on fairly early on and that was the discovery of the strategy that I trade. And since then, I've just stayed basically within that profile. So I created a profile for the type of stocks that have the potential to go up 30, 50 or even 100% in one day because I knew that those were the stocks I was making the most money on. Now, some people would say, Ross, why would you buy something that's already up 40% or 50%? You clearly miss the move. But what I learned is that as an active day trader looking to capitalize on volatility, something that's already up 50% has a much higher likelihood of going up 10% than something that's up zero going up 10%. And now to sort of get your head around that, for something that's up 0% on the day that's going sideways, what would allow it to go up 10%? It would need to have news come out. Like right? Something would have to happen. But if a stock is already up 50% because it's got news, then a lot of people are already watching it. So if that stock continues higher, for it to go from 50% to 60% is no big deal. And so those are the types of stocks I focus on. And ultimately, as a momentum trader, I'm looking to buy the dips to ride the next wave of momentum up and then let it pull back by the next dip for the next wave back up. And what we see is that a lot of these stocks that make huge moves, like the stock that we had on Thursday and Friday last week that went up 1500% in two trading sessions, they do it by going up in these waves. So the dips become pullback, dip buying opportunities, and then profit taking into that next surge higher. So since I have a good sense of the type of stocks I make the most money on, my first order business each day is to try to find one of those stocks in real time. Now to give you kind of a high level outline, I have essentially five pillars for stock selection. So what I look for, number one is I have a price filter and I prefer stocks between two and 20. I have a percentage change filter and they need to be up a minimum of 10%. I have a relative volume filter that needs to be at a ratio of five times the normal volume. So relative volume is a measurement of what's normal for that stock. Today it needs to be five times higher than normal. Number four, I like to see that the stock has news and number five, I like to see it the float or the number of shares available at trade is under 10 million. So this is my sort of the five pillars of stock selection and there's some additional filters and I get a little bit more dialed in here, but just to give you sort of the high level overview. Okay, so then my goal each day is to try to find, you know, one or maybe two stocks like that that show up on my scanners. So the scanners that I'm using are part of the day trade dash software and at warrior trading over the last seven years, we've been developing this software. So as a software company developing a software, I have a team of developers who've been building this out for me. And this is what a lot of our members are subscribing to over at warrior trading.com, which you guys can always check out, by the way, with a two week trial. I'll put a link in the description. So if you want to try using the software for two weeks and see if it helps you find stocks to day trade stocks that are volatile and that are moving, then, you know, I'll be thrilled if you enjoy it. It's not, you know, no big deal, but you can give it a try for two weeks. So, so step one is to try to find the stocks that are moving. Okay, so I use the scanner right here to look for stocks that are up at least 30%, right? If it's not up at least 30% for me, this stock is not something I'm going to consider. So I need to see it moving. Now I look at each of the stocks on this scan and I just start evaluating how well they meet those five pillars. So this stock right here has a float of 126 million shares. So that's going to be too high, right? I prefer a float of under 10 million, but this one number one is up 161% with a 500,000 share float, 95 million shares of volume relative volume is a thousand. It meets all of my metrics and it has news, you know, check, check, check. And this is a stock that went from two to three to four to five to six, pulled back, and then the afternoon goes up to seven. So this 100% fit within my criteria of being the right type of stock to trade. ASTS did not because the float was too high, but this one VSME, this one was fine, a little on the cheaper side, but fine PRTG. This one was fine, a little on the cheaper side of $3, but that's okay. This one, the float's too high. This one with a 14 million share of float and at 19, yeah, a little tricky. And here's the thing, on this day, we have two other stocks or three other stocks that look better. So the funny thing is that this stock on a day when these weren't here might have done really well, just like I might have been prom king if the 30 or 40 more attractive men at the prom hadn't gone. But on this day here, because there were much more interesting stocks, well, this one gets knocked to the bottom of the list and no one pays attention to it. You have to realize that all the commission free brokers, they're all trying to encourage active trading because they make more money, the more their clients, their customers are trading. You are the commodity. So they're always telling you, these are the stocks that are leading percentage gainers, which means these are the ones that get a lot of attention, a lot of people see them. So more attention, more eyes, more volume, higher relative volume, bigger percentage change, more volatility, more opportunity for profit. So step one is stock selection. Step two is doing my due diligence and deciding whether or not I like the stock from a fundamental and a technical perspective. Now as an active trader, I'm primarily focused on technicals because although fundamentals do matter in the long run, in the short term, what we have found is that the actual price of the stock as it's trading can become very disconnected from what some people would argue is the true fundamental value or the true market value of the company. We certainly saw that in the case of GameStop, but then stop GameStop from going all the way up to $500 a share. So if you sit there and say, no, the fundamentals don't support this move, you're just going to be sitting on the sidelines watching stocks get incredibly disconnected from their fundamental value and you're going to make nothing. So ultimately, when I get into doing my due diligence, it starts with checking to see what the catalyst is that's driving this stock higher. So part of my five pillars of stock selections that I like to see a news catalyst and typically on most days, the leading percentage gainer, it's got a news catalyst that's, there's the reason that it's up 138% or whatever the case is and today was the same thing there. So we look for stocks that are moving up with news. That's what initially creates the move and then while it may be the case that the stock goes up a lot more than some people think that that type of news headline should result in. Well, look, if you want to sit there and be stubborn, you could be stubborn. But what we know is that stocks can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent. So just sitting there and trading against the trend or waiting doesn't work very well. So once I've done my basic due diligence of checking just to see what the headlines are, I can take that a step further and look at the SEC filings. So in the case of SINT today, which is the stock that I actually made the most on, but then also lost on because I gave back my profit on it on this stock. I was able to pull up the SEC filings and by checking those filings, I, one of the things I like to do and I really only do this if I'm getting really interested in a stock and trying to decide if I should keep trading it, I'll check their balance sheet and just see how much cash they have on hand and what kind of debt they are holding. And then I checked to see what their, what their net profit was for the last quarter or for the last year, because then that gives me a sense of, all right, this is a company that either is likely in need of capital. They're going to have to raise money or they're, you know, they're doing just fine. So let's see, six month ending right here. So they're operating in a net loss, a net loss of three million dollars, which is substantial considering the fact that this company only has how much was it? 4.5 million in cash, right? So now you're like, how many, how many quarters in a row can they continue to lose money before they need to raise money? And companies like this, what they'll often do is they'll raise money by selling shares on the open market and that's going to affect the supply demand equation. So that's my first part of due diligence, sort of the fundamental aspect. And then I get into the technical aspect. So I'll jump out of this for one second. So the technical component is when I'm actually pulling up my candlestick charts, I'm looking at the individual candlestick shapes to interpret the sentiment behind them. Those of you guys who have checked out one of my classes on how to read candlestick charts from zero, you'll know, for instance, that each one of these candlestick shapes, this one, or this one, or this one, or this one, or this one, or this one all communicate different messages. And the message that they communicate also depends on the context where this candlestick shape occurs, if it's in during the sideways consolidation, if it's during an uptrend or a downtrend, et cetera. So I do my technical analysis looking at my technical indicators and looking at the chart and trying to identify any possible areas of resistance. So again, just as an example of this today, and what I'm going to do, I'm going to walk you through the rest of my strategy here. And then I'm going to look at today's trades as sort of the case study of, well, being a loser. And in this case, hopefully you'll think of it as being a good loser, considering I'm up, well, we'll see how much I'm up in the last 47 days before this red, red day began. But I think big picture is, even though today is a red day, the big picture is, of course, this strategy works very well for me. And this new position management technique has taken it kind of a step further. But anyway, so I do my due diligence here analyzing the technicals of the chart, looking for support and resistance and looking for areas, essentially where I could be buying these types of dips down here and down here and right down in here. So when we get something that's moving, that's when I get excited. When something is going more or less sideways, I don't care about it. I'm not going to make money when it's going sideways. I want to trade it when we're getting those nice, quick squeezes. And so step three of my strategy is to actually execute on my thesis or on that actual setup that I see, which is to press the buy button to get in to know exactly where I'm going to sell for a loss or for profit. A trade is not a trade until you understand your entry point, your loss for a max loss and your profit target. If you don't know those things, you're gambling, you're not trading. So to be a trader, you have to be thinking about risk. Risk comes first. And ultimately, we come back to that's really what this new technique is all about. Again, I'll put a link here pinned at the top of the comments and link to the description for you guys to check out a two week trial at warrior trading. If you do a two week trial, you'll get two weeks of access to the software that I'm using every single day, which you guys just saw right here. And you'll also get access to six chapters from my day trading, the basics trading course, which I think you guys will really enjoy. So you get to go through that. You get to learn as much as you can through the two weeks that you're with me tune in every day to my live broadcast and really give it a try. See what it's like to be a member of this community. So now let's talk about the results. OK, so I lock up 47 consecutive green days following the strategy I just shared with you and implementing the position management technique to mitigate my risk. I lock up four hundred twenty six thousand two hundred eighty four dollars and seventy eight cents in gross profit across forty seven days. And I maintained a two to one profit to loss ratio, which actually, although this is my second longest hot streak of consecutive days. It may actually be my most profitable hot streak that I've ever had. I'd have to go. I'd have to go back and check that it might not be. But anyways, so it doesn't really matter. In any case, it was a nice stretch of good trading and solid consistency. So let's look at this data a little bit more deeply. We're going to go from June 28th through today. All right, that's fine. Well, actually, this isn't going to have today because I remember I can't import today's trades until they settle, so I'll be able to import them tomorrow. So this is the gross profit right here. This is the number that we were just looking at four hundred twenty six thousand dollars. All right, now this has an average daily gain of eight thousand eight hundred dollars, which is fantastic. My daily goal is five thousand, so I've been averaging above that. But let's focus more here on something that's really powerful. Look at this profit to loss ratio, five hundred forty seven dollar average winner, two hundred eighty two dollar average loser. So what do we know about that profit loss ratio? Well, if your profit loss ratio is one to one, your breakeven point is fifty percent. If your profit loss ratio is one to two profit to loss, your breakeven point is sixty six point seven percent approximately. If your profit loss ratio is two to one, so this is the profit and this is the loss. So your winners are twice your losers. Your breakeven is thirty three again point just like that. That's fine. OK, so my breakeven point was thirty three percent accuracy, but look at the accuracy during this streak. The accuracy was sixty six point eight percent, which is solid. So I maintained essentially the same accuracy, but my profit loss ratio changed dramatically. This was just for this forty seven day period. Now, if I scroll this back to January 1st through June 10th, or whatever, it doesn't matter June 27th, something like that. And we look at the profit loss ratio during this period. Look at that, the average profit loss ratio is closer to one to one and the accuracy was even a little bit lower. And during that period, which was longer, I made three hundred and fifteen thousand dollars, which is not bad, but the average daily gain was only twenty seven hundred dollars. So I'm not going to say that the only thing that was different was this position management technique, because we also benefited from the fact that July was a really hot month in the overall market. We had some great opportunities. So it was just great timing that I came into a hot market with this new position management technique, but it did save me from having some huge red days, because there were a couple of days where on those first trades, I dug the hole, I went into the red, but I was able to recover. So this is kind of what I started to think. I said to myself, all right, if on any given day, I'm going to take, let's say at least ten trades and I can maintain, I don't know if that's ten lines, but if I can maintain, you know, sixty five percent accuracy, then I should be green on one, two, three, four, five, six, at least maybe seven, right? So, you know, green six to seven out of the ten. All right, no, I guess that was six, seven, eight, nine, ten. There we go. So what I thought was that it may be bad timing that trade number one is a loser and trade number two is a loser and trade number three is a loser. But look, it's possible that I could catch three losers in a row and then proceed to have seven winners in a row, right? That could happen. So now what I've got to make sure of is that if I have three losers in a row, I'm not going to be down below my max loss. What's my max loss? I generally said it about five thousand dollars. Now, there were a couple of days where I got close to that and there are days certainly where I've gone below five thousand into the red and I've continued to trade, which is always a little bit risky for whatever reason on that day. I made the educated intuition based decision to continue trading. Usually if I go down more than five thousand and I keep trading, it's for one of two reasons, number one, it's because I know what I'm doing. So that's enough of that. Number two, it's because I don't know what I'm doing and I'm just revenge trading. It's definitely one of those two. But here's the thing. Today, for instance, I went into the red on my first two trades. So now let's kind of start to break down my trades from today. And this was just this was just terrible timing. I mean, look, this happens, but this was my streak of red to green and red. I had a really nice long stretch here of green trades. In fact, I had at one point two, four, six, seven, eight green trades in a row. So it was just bad luck, I suppose, that I got, you know, my first seven trades, six of them out of the seven were losers. And it was really bad luck as it turned out that my first trade was a four thousand seven hundred dollar loss because it put me right up against my max loss. And on my second trade, I was down one thousand eight hundred dollars. So that meant from those two trades, I was down six thousand five hundred. That was my low point of today. So today I went down basically on those first two trades, first the one, forty seven, and then another one to minus six thousand five hundred. And that is below my max loss and I continued to trade. The reason I continued to trade was because I was trading as early as I was. I said, look, it's seven fifteen in the morning. I know that if I can maintain focus and stay calm, cool, and collected, there will be 10 more opportunities, maybe 15 more trades today. I just have to stay focused. Now, I also said to myself, let's take a breath because you just took two sort of bigger losses and this is the worst start to a day that you've had in basically three months. So now let's step back and actually look at today's trades and talk about being a good loser. OK, so we talked about the results here. So I'm going to back out of this slide deck and we're going to pull up. Let's see. I'm going to pull up these trades right here. I'm going to put this up here and I'm going to have to pull up my my trading account. OK, so my first trade of the day was on Riley, R-I-L-Y, $4,700 loss. And so we pull this one up. This one hit my scanner right at seven a.m. It was right in here and you can see this is sort of that jackknife whipsaw and I got caught in it and I took the loss. So the way I found this stock step one was it hit my scanners right here. It hit my scanner as it was squeezing up. Now you'll observe it's got a 15 million share float that's a little higher than the 10 million or under that I prefer. However, this is a stock that I traded last week. And you know what's really funny is I was having a red day last week. This was on I can't remember what day it was, but it was this day right here. And this trade into the close was what saved my day. This is what stopped me from having a red day last Tuesday. And then here we go. Riley today puts me into the red. So it's kind of funny how that works out. But anyways, it hits my scanner and because I had recently had a good trade on it, I was like, OK, Riley, I know this stock, I'm going to go ahead and jump on it. So what I ended up doing is I pull up the stock. I saw that I was already familiar with the daily chart. I thought that we had news, which is why it was spiking up. We did have a headline here provides updated on strategic financing initiatives. And I pull up the charts. I've got my one minute, I've got my five minute and I've got my 10 second time frame. So on the 10 second chart, it pops up right here. And I see it in my scanner, basically right here when it hits 585, 595, $6, 610, 613. And I was like, oh, my gosh. So right here, this is at six. So this is at it hits a high rate here of 645. It then drops down. And right here, there's a buyer right at 620. There was a 20,000 share buyer sitting right on the bid. And I looked at that and I thought, wow, OK, this thing just hit 645. It's dipping down to 620. I'm going to buy right here. So I bought at about 625. It pops up to 640 and I'm like, good, that's great. That's exactly what I want to see. And then an instant later, it dumps all the way to 594. And that seller that was there at 620 was gone. It flushes. And now I'm kind of in like, uh-oh, I have made a little bit of a mistake. So I added down here at 590 at the low of this pullback. I was like, that's the low, I'm going to add down here. It pops up for a second and then it goes lower. Now, right here, when it dipped on this candle, I tried to sell on the bid and I only filled a partial position. So unfortunately, this is one of those stocks where I had no problem getting in. I got in my full position, but when I turn around to sell, I only sold, gosh, what was it? I sold, I'm not kidding, 35 shares. I filled 35 shares of my order and it's like, all right, well, I've still got the rest of my shares here. This is a problem and it pops up. So I try to sell some shares on the ask and I end up getting filled. Let's see. So I got filled, uh, looks like 3,226 shares I filled on the ask. And then right here, next thing you know, it flushes down and I'm selling the rest, basically the bottom of this candle. Now, selling at the bottom of the candle is never my goal, but you have to cut your loss. I'm, I'm a big advocate that you cut your loss. If you hold it, it's going to get bigger as it turns out. Well, this thing did kind of rally off the lows, but that wouldn't have made it the right decision to hold. It's still the right move to get out of the trade. So I get out of it and I'm down 4,700 bucks and that's at 7.05 a.m. So I'm like, all right, max loss, $5,000. But it's still early at 7.05. So let's try to be calm. Let's see what happens. VS comes up. We have this stock VS that pops up. And so this is my, let's see, this is my second trade. So on VS, let's go back here. This stock pops up on the scan and I took my first entry right here at 2.05. I bought this dip right here at 2.05. And so I'm in at 2.05 and it drops down. So it pops up and it drops down and I sold it at 2.08. But so I added it to 2.05 and to 12. So my average was basically 2.09, 2.08. I sold it for a $25 loss. So I'm read like $25 on stock. OK, so it's not a big loss, but I am read on it nonetheless. Then it ends up, let's see, curling right here. And as it broke through, this was at about 7.13. As it broke through the high, I got back in and I actually got out at 2.25 ish, 2.24. So I ended up making 380 bucks on it in total at one point, unrealized. I was up 1,100 on this one and I gave back that profit. So it didn't, it was not a very good trade. So anyways, $380 on that. And then I see this other stock pop up on the scanner, T-E-R-N. Look at the float on T-E-R-N. It's got a 45 million share float. So this one pops up and initially when I see it hit the scanner at 9.20, I'm like, I don't know, floats a little high. It's also easy to borrow, but I did see that it had a news catalyst. So I thought, you know what, if it's got news, you know, maybe I should not be too close minded. Let's see what this thing can do. So I take my first trade on this at about 7.22 right here as it starts to pull away. Once again, there was a big buyer on the bid and I'm a tape reader. So typically I see a big buyer on the bid and I'm like, OK, this is good. So I add and then it pops here and it blushes back down. I stop out of that with a, I think it was a $500 loss on the first trade. So I'm like, wow, OK, that was not so fun. Then it pops back up right here. And I'm like, all right, maybe I just got chopped out of that first move. I got back in and it drops a second time. So now I'm like, all right, this is unbelievable. So now I'm down about 6,500. I'm at basically my kind of low of day. So we hit. So actually, I guess the VS trade was sort of in the middle. But anyway, so Riley was the first trade, then VS, VS was the second. So loser, loser, loser, one winner in there. Then I had the big losses on TERM and TERM. So basically I had one, two, three, four, five losses, the one winner on VS. And I'm like six trades in and my accuracy is one out of six. So at that point, I was like, all right, guys, I got to get up for a second. So I got up for a minute. I went and I got an apple. I was like, I'm going to eat an apple here. And I said, OK, so this is your moment. This is a day that looks like it's going to be a red day. But how many trades have you taken so far? And I counted them out and I said, well, I've taken one, two, three, four, five, six trades. And I was like, OK, I've taken six trades. And how many of them were winners? I said, just one. And I said, wow, OK, so you're a loser right now. That's all right. You can be good at this. What you need to do is keep trading with small size. And what I want you to focus on is see if you can get four or five winners in a row to bring your accuracy today back up to 50 percent. Let's see if you can get back to 50 percent accuracy. And that's why I told myself, I said, just focus on 50 percent accuracy right now. So on my next trade, focusing just on the accuracy, BLMZ hits my scanner, BLMZ. And I saw this when I was like, OK, traded this one or familiar with it from Friday. And I said, you know what, I think I could probably work with this. So we're getting an ABCD pattern. I got a trade right here for the breakthrough to 25. We got to squeeze up to 240, a little pullback and then move up to 250. Boom, $704 a profit. I'm like, nice, you're moving in the right direction. That's great, very good. So that was right coming up to eight. I am at 756 a.m. Next trade, S.I.N.T. S.I.N.T. top of the hour, eight a.m. It's got breaking news. It starts popping up. What do I see? Float 739 million shares. It's squeezing up. It's got a news catalyst. So I'm thinking, all right, this is something I can work with. So I pull up the chart. I do my due diligence. I like it all checks out. Let me just put this on auto here for a second. So go on auto. And I took my first entry on S.I.N.T. at $3.48. So I got in at 3.48. It squeezes up here. Oops. Sorry. So it squeezes up right here to a high of 3.74. And I got in with my starter at the half dollar of 350. It pops up, it drops down. First trade, I make a couple hundred bucks. I was like, all right, you're keeping it tight. Good. It pulls back. When it comes back up here for the breakthrough 380, I was like, you're getting back in. I got back in right here. We get a squeeze up to four up to four fifteen all the way up to 480. I take my profit. It drops back down. So I'm like, OK, that's fine. It comes back up. I got back in right here. We get an ABCD pattern. Next thing you know, it's going up to 520. It pulls back again. I'm buying that dip. We get a squeeze up to 540. It pulls back. And I went right here through that move on the front side. I made $8,000 on SINT. And I went from red 6,000 on the day to green, about 3,500. Through this area, I continued to trade it. We got a couple of dips on these bigger candle wicks here, which in hindsight should have been a bit more of a red flag. So we got a couple of dips. We kept coming up, but not breaking higher. We finally started a pull away and then we dropped back down. So coming right into the open, I was up $4,000. And at the open, first we dip down. I said, I'm not trading it. It pops back up. It drops as it comes back up right here. I got in and we get that squeeze up to 640. And right there, I got myself up $4,500 on the day. And I was like, nice job. Good work. It then drops down. It comes up right here and right there. I added 7,500 shares for the breakthrough 680 and the squeeze up to seven. In an instant, it's dropping at the low of this candle down to 610. I'm down 70 cents a share, seven times seven. I'm down five grand. I'm like, unbelievable. I got to cut the loss. I stopped out in one trade right there. And that I mean, honestly, that's that's a big loss. I mean, losing 60, 70 cents a share on 7,500 shares is a big loss. Now I had scaled up at this point to trading with more than 5,000 shares because I was up over a thousand bucks. I felt like I had a bad start, but now I'm in the driver's seat. I'm up over $10,000 on SINT. So it drops down and sure enough, it ends up bouncing more or less right off my exit. So as it breaks 650, I got back in because what I thought was doing here was a wick reclaim and I was like, oh, this thing, this is going to rip through this level and go straight to like 750 and halt up. That's what I was visualizing happening. And this is what happened. Boom. Stopped out a second time, lost five grand on the second trade. Now, this trade right here, I was not quick enough to size down. I took that trade with 10,000 shares. I should have only taken it with 5,000 because I was back below $1,000 a profit. But in an instant, I was back in 10,000 shares looking for that squeeze to seven. Boom, done. And that was my last trade of the day. So then it comes up again and it does it again, right? And this thing just all day long kept doing these jackknife candles, just all day long. So, you know, it's disappointing that I ended up, this is another one here. I mean, I went from the low today of 6,500. I rallied all the way back to just $500 under my daily goal. And then, you know, on two trades in almost an instant gone. And so one of the things I say about trading is look, easy come, easy go. You've seen me have days where I've made 20, 30, $40,000, $40,000. I mean, those of you who've been watching for a while, you've seen me break six figures in a single day. Best day of my entire career, just under half a million dollars a profit. You've seen me have read had, you know, red days and today's a red day, today's a day where I felt like I was had the wind at my back and we had momentum. And then all of a sudden I got this, you know, jackknife move. And I was like, no, OK, well, that was bad. But I think it's and then second jackknife in a row and boom, back to max loss. But, you know, like I said, it's this is part of trading and there's no strategy that's not going to have a degree of loss. And so why did I not make an attempt to continue trading after coming back to minus five K, right? So what's interesting here is that what changed the day for me 100 percent was SINT having breaking news. I made $10,000 on that stock. And then in two trades, I gave it all back. It's been a while that I've had that kind of move where I made 10,000 on something and went back to flat. I mean, that was pretty dramatic. So the good news is this is kind of the exception to have a move like that, not the norm. I mean, making the 10,000, I'm seeing that on a regular basis. But giving it all back in two trades, that doesn't happen very often. Maybe today I was just continuing to be a little too aggressive, a little too late in the morning. I don't know. I don't know exactly why that happened. I mean, and also for what's worth, this stock did a bunch of jackknife moves. This was just a difficult stock. And maybe it's because the company's going to announce that they've done an offering today and they've been selling shares on the open market. Maybe it's got insiders who are dumping. Maybe it's got people who have been a bag holder that are dumping. I don't know what it is, but for some reason, this one was really choppy. But here was the problem. So I had my early loss at seven a.m. The eight a.m. We get breaking news and boom, I'm back in the driver's seat. Now coming up to 10 a.m. here, what's going to give me a what's going to give me the momentum to go back to green? I'm going to get a stock that's going to go up a hundred percent, like S.I.N.T. just did. Well, what's going to cause the stock to go up a hundred percent at 10 a.m. in the morning or 11 a.m. or 12 or one or two or three? It's going to have to be breaking news. Breaking news doesn't usually come out in the middle of the day. So the second option is that we just have a stock that gains some momentum. But in order for a stock to gain some momentum, there has to be some strong buying sentiment in the market. And I don't think there's going to be a lot of buying sentiment in the market after this big rejection on S.I.N.T. I'm sure I'm not the only one that went red on it with some of these jackknife moves. So today we don't have the sentiment. We don't have the stock that's squeezing up. So I really don't have anything that I can trade to recoup these losses. Now, if we had a stock right now that started to squeeze up what I consider trading it, I would consider trading it as long as I could keep my risk and check. But ultimately, I would have to go back to trading with a cap of 5,000 shares until I might back up over a thousand dollars and only then scale back up. Now, it's possible if we had a really strong stock, I could reduce my loss today by a little bit. That's possible, right? We could have something that's really strong and I could end up cutting my loss in half and then it's still a red day. It's just a smaller red day. So this again gets back to as long as I have enough time. If I have enough time, I think I can recover. So what's kind of interesting here is on the one hand, I almost feel like I could have no red days if each day I had enough time. If there were just a couple more hours left in each day, but what happens is I run out of time and that's what happened today. I just ran out of time where we had opportunities, where we had stocks with breaking news with momentum. So my red days with this new position management strategy are going to be the result of a day where I run out of opportunities. And so this is a red day, but it does not have to be a red week. It's the beginning of the week and I can look now at tomorrow, the next few days as an opportunity to recoup some of these losses just by simply the benefit of time. So I might not be able to have every day green if I run out of opportunities, but I think I should be able to have most weeks green and certainly most months green as long as we sort of bigger picture have enough opportunities. There have been periods in the market where we were in extended bear market where there were fewer opportunities and in that market, you have to be much more selective because if you catch a big loss, it can take more time to recover from it. And then that period of recovery, you're also sort of dealing with lower self confidence and you're right on the edge of trying not to go into that downward spiral and that can be an opportunity cost because then you're not as aggressive as you'd ordinarily be if you were at the top of your game. So right now, you know, having just made $424,000 in the last 47 days, what percent am I down right now, $5,000? One percent? I'm down a hair off the top. You know, if we actually plot this out on a chart and I guess my metrics kind of do that in a sense, they'll plot it out on a chart and we'll see that big picture, this loss is not significant, you know, like today's loss. The only the biggest significance of it, really, truthfully, is that it broke this consecutive day hot streak and consecutive days are is not a valid thing to track track consecutive days where you maintain discipline, not consecutive green days. In fact, the better you can be at not even looking at your consecutive green days, like you'll be better off as a result. My problem is, of course, I'm looking at these metrics all the time and I'm doing it because, you know, I'm you guys hold me accountable. I've got to show you what I'm doing. I've got to show you if I'm green, I've got to show you if I'm red and it became pretty apparent that I knew I was on a pretty long hot streak. I told myself not to count the days and I did until today, but I knew back there that Tuesday when I went red, I was like, Oh, this will be the end of the streak. Oh, so I traded a little longer to try to recover and I did make it by the end of the day, the end of that day, I made it just barely back into the green. But this was nearly, you know, $2,600 in the red. It was almost a red day. So, you know, that was a close call. And then, you know, whatever today it caught up with me. On the other hand, how much was I green on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday? Last week was $20,000 a week. I was up $7,000 just on Friday. So, you know, giving back $5,000, it's giving back one day. And one of the reasons that I set my weekly goal at $15,000 is because I figure, you know, typically, of course, we've got five trading days in the week. And I figure I'll hopefully have three days where I hit my daily goal, maybe four days, and then I'll have one day where I hit my max loss. So, the one day where I hit my max loss cancels out one of my daily goals. So, that means my weekly goal is the daily times three, which is about $15,000. So, $15,000 a week, $60,000 a month, $720,000 per year. It's almost a quarter, three quarters of a million dollars. That's my goal. Now, there's years where I've fallen short of it. There's years where I've come up above it. And as I sit right now on the year, thanks in a large part to just this, you know, this last 47 day streak and this new position management technique that I've implemented, I'm sitting, well, 90 days, I guess this is going to be just last 90 days. But we'll look here to date, I'm sitting at $742,000 a profit year to date. So, as I sit right now, I have already beaten my annual goal, which means everything I make for the rest of the year is icing on the cake. But of course, I don't want to pee on my own cake by so to speak. You don't hear that expression used a lot. But, you know, bear with me, I don't want to piss on my cake and give, you know, give back what I've made. I want to add icing to the cake. So I've got to be really careful, of course, that I don't start a downward spiral of giving back the perfectly good profit that I've made from the first, you know, section of the year so far. So now is the time to stay calm, cool, collected and be focused. And as long as I can maintain that head space, then for me, really, it's just a matter of time. It's only a matter of time before I make back this loss. And of course, it's only going to be a matter of time before I catch another loss. But I know that I'll recover from that one, too. Your first recovery from a drawdown is a pivotal moment as a beginner trainer. Because that's the moment where you realize, wow, I actually know what I'm doing. When you're just on that hot streak, it's like everything's great. But when you have those first losses, it gets scary. When you recover from that first drawdown, that's when it's a big deal. And so that requires you to be not just a good, but a great loser. I hope you guys have really enjoyed this class. If you have hit that thumbs up, subscribe the channel for more episodes about trading strategy just like this. And I will remind you to check out the two week trial. There's a link posted in the top of the comments linked in the description. You can watch over my shoulder for two weeks. You can use our software, the scanners, the charts, the newsfeed, everything else. Go through some of the classes and see what it's like to be part of the warrior trading community for momentum traders. And again, as always, my results are not typical. So manage your risk, take it slow and I'll see you guys back here bright and early. I'll be streaming tomorrow morning. You got to get back on the horse and I'll be back on tomorrow morning.