# 51. How to Trade Pre-Market & After Hours (Step-by-Step Guide)
# id=PjVivCcM1B0 (whisper base.en)

Today's episode is all about pre-market and after hours trading. If you asked me five years ago, Russ, do you ever trade pre-market? I would have said no, because at that time I didn't, and then something happened. There was a change in the market, and I had to make a decision of whether I was going to adapt my strategy to begin trading pre-market, or if I was going to stay stuck in my ways and wait until the 930 opening bell. As many of you have observed, I adjusted my strategy, and I now trade pre-market. My days start a lot earlier than it used to, and I see it in the comments almost every single day. The trader will say, Ross, I see your trading pre-market, but I don't know how you're doing it. How are you placing your orders? Whenever I try to place an order pre-market, it doesn't fill, either gets rejected or it just sits there until the 930 opening bell. So in today's episode, I'm going to walk you through the catalyst that forced me to start trading pre-market. I'm going to share with you how to place orders that will go through successfully pre-market and after hours, and I'm also going to share with you some of the limitations of extended hours trading, but some of the clear advantages. We're also going to touch on hot keys and the way I structure my orders to make sure I get filled on the trades that I'm looking at. In my opinion, pre-market trading is important. If you want to participate, make sure you watch to the end of this episode so you know all the do's and don'ts of pre-market and extended hours trading. So we're going to go ahead and jump into the slide deck here. The topic overarching here is this is all about capitalizing on breaking news. And this is a great example right here of a stock that ended up squeezing up during the pre-market session. Golly, this was like 300%. It was incredible. The stock ended up going up just about 700% by the end of the day, but this early move began right at 8.30 AM, a full hour before the 9.30 opening bell. Now if you look at my charts here, you'll see that they're shaded differently for pre-market than regular trading hours. That helps me easily distinguish the two and I'll show you the settings that I use to make that clear delineation. So this is a stock that came out with breaking news right at 8.30 and it squeezes from about $2.50 up to 3, $3.50 to 4, $4.50 to 5, $5.50 to 6, $6.50 to 7 to 8 to 9, hits a high of $10.80 pre-market. I locked up $24,821 and $0.82 and I think all of that I locked up before the 9.30 opening bell. Snooze you lose. So for traders that were waiting until the opening bell, what would have happened? You would have missed the whole move. I don't want you to miss the move. If you want to participate in the move, you should be able to and it's important that you're empowered with the knowledge of how to execute these orders so they will actually fill pre-market. All right. So let's go ahead and jump into the topics that we're going to cover in this class. We've got five key topics and we're going to begin with topic number one, which is market hours. Many of you already know, but for those that don't, the market hours are 4 a.m. till 9.30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time, New York City Time. That is the pre-market session. And then from 9.30 to 4 p.m. are regular trading hours. And from 4 p.m. until 8 p.m. is after hours trading. 24 hours trading is available on a limited number of stocks with select brokers. Not all brokers are currently allowing 24 hour trading. So that may be available for you, but for a lot of us, it's still not available. So those are our market hours. And five years ago, my day began usually at about 9 a.m. When I would sit down, I would look at the scans and I would get ready to take my first trades as soon as the opening bell rang at 9.30. So to give you kind of a walkthrough of what my workflow looks like on a typical day, and this is going to be what my workflow looked like five years ago, I would sit down. I would look at the scanners and in this case right here, let's see, we're going to take away the top gainer scanner and we're going to replace it with our top gappers scanner. So I'll move this over here like that. So this is my top gapper scanner. This is what the scans looked like coming right into 9.30. So this scan stops updating at 9.30. That way we have a picture of exactly what the pre market gappers looked like. Now I'll go ahead and jump into the settings here for my chart. So if you look at this chart, you'll see that I've got after hours is in this kind of lighter shade of blue, pre market is in this kind of like yellowish color, it's like the sun is rising, the sun is setting, pre market after hours. So if you go into your settings on your chart, you should be able to go ahead and change your pre and post market background. You want to get a little wild, you want to make it brighter, you can make it brighter, you want to make it a little scarier, you can make it red, you can do whatever you want. But it is important to separate the two because something that you will notice on almost every stock is something occurs right at the opening bell, a surge of volume. So it is still true that there is a lot more volume during the regular trading hours than pre market for a number of reasons that I'll explain as we continue on this episode. So I want you to go ahead and adjust your settings so you can clearly see pre market after hours and regular trading hours. That way when you go full screen, you can back this up and you can see you've got this ribbon regular after pre regular after pre regular after pre regular, et cetera, et cetera. All right. So you've got that set up. That's going to be on your five minute, one minute, 10 second chart, if you have it, your daily charts for me personally, my daily charts only show regular trading hours candles. This has been standard for a long time that your daily charts are not set to show pre market and and after hours, highs and lows. And this is going to tie into one of the reasons that there are some limitations with pre market and after hours trading historically. If we go back way, way in time for, you know, for electronic digital trading history, historically there's been very light volume during pre market and after hours trading sessions. And so if we went back five years ago, I would sit down at nine a.m., I would look at my top gapper scanner right here and there's no way there'd be a stock with 15 million shares of volume already pre market that like never happened. This one's got 15. This one's got nine. This one's got three. Typically, we would see a bunch of stocks that were more like this. They had, you know, anywhere from, you know, maybe 30,000 to 50,000 shares of volume. The volume was very light. And so these were companies that had put out breaking news sometime overnight or maybe early in the morning at four a.m., five, six, seven, eight, whatever. And so the news was out there, but traders weren't really reacting to it yet. And it was the funniest thing when I think back on it now, because we would sit and we would see the stock, for instance, like CX AI, we would see that it had news and we would see that maybe there were a couple of candles pre market, but hardly any. And we would all just be sitting here sort of twiddling our thumbs waiting for that opening bell and then the bell would ring and boom, it was off to the races. Now, actually today is kind of funny because CX AI is a good example of a stock that pre market didn't really do a whole lot. And then right at the opening bell, all of a sudden, this first five minutes, it has 12 million shares of volume. The next five minutes has another 10 million shares. So you've got 22 million shares of volume here just in the first 10 minutes of trading. It more than doubled all the volume that you had from pre market, which is kind of wild, but you'll see as the day goes on, what happens to the volume, the volume declines, it decreases. And so the reason that most traders were waiting until the 930 opening bell was because, you know, four or five years ago, you really, a lot of brokers didn't like a trade pre market or you had to use special orders and a lot of people didn't know how to do it. And so we just all kind of waited until the opening bell pre market with really light volume. We used to have big spreads. There was no liquidity. So you just kind of waited to see whether or not that volume would come in at the open. And of course it did here in the case of a CXAI, but in a lot of cases now, this, this move actually started after hours right here. That's when the move began and that first five minute candle, it squeezed from $1.50 all the way up to $3 a share. And this was yesterday at 4 p.m. Why the company put out news, it puts out news source 62% after Google Cloud deal. So it goes from $1.50 all the way up to three. Now, if you had been sitting here after hours yesterday, let's just say you're sitting here at 3.45 and you're like, Oh, I'm going to kind of watch to see if there's anything moving after hours. There would have been an opportunity if you wanted to to participate in this move. If, of course, you knew how to set up your orders properly. So I look at this volatility as opportunity. If you don't want to participate in it and you don't want to trade it, that's fine. You certainly don't have to, but it is volatility and it does present an opportunity for a skilled trader. Now, the one minute chart shows it squeezed up pretty quickly. If we pulled up the 10 second chart, we would probably get a little bit of a better view on it. And I bet there's at least a micro pullback in here somewhere. So let's see. So right there, you can see zoomed in on the 10 second chart initially pops, pulls back pops up, micro pullback right there at 240. That gives you the move up to 280, micro pullback right there at 280. That gives you the move up to 310. So those are two perfectly reasonable trades that you would have been able to take if you had your level two up. So you're watching the order flow is it popped up, pulled back, popped up and pulled back and you had your orders configured correctly. So this is a move that began during the after hours session. All right. So now let's go ahead. So so five years ago, four years ago, in 2019 and early 2020, I would be sitting here just waiting for, you know, one of the stocks that was on our gapper to start squeezing at the open. Maybe even if the news came out after hours, you wouldn't have had this big green candle. It would be up a little bit, but on very light volume. And so typically we'd be looking at stocks up 30, 40% on light volume and we would just wait until the opening bell to jump right in. And then what ended up happening was in 2020, during the pandemic, at the very beginning, during the lockdown, I remember the day, I don't remember the day of the week, it was actually the exact day, but in terms of the date. But what I remember is there was a day where I was sitting, looking at my scanners, just like this, and I had the stock on watch. Let's just say it was CX AI, for instance. And I knew that I wanted to get in as soon as it squeezed at the opening bell. And all of a sudden it starts to move and it's 928. It's 928 and it's already squeezing and I press the buy button and all of a sudden I was like, whoa, I'm in pre-market. I didn't even know really that my order would go through pre-market, but all of a sudden I was in and the bell hadn't rung. Now at the open, it squeezed up even more. This thing just ripped. I was like, holy smokes, that was crazy. The next day, same exact thing happened. The most obvious stock, it was our leading gapper. It's at the top of the scan. It looks really good and it starts pulling away, 927. And then the next day, it's like 925. That's 920. And now all of a sudden, once you're trading pre-market, there's no reason to wait till 928. You might as well just trade as soon as the news comes out. And so within days, the second news came out. If it was at 8 a.m., 830, 9 a.m., whenever it was, boom, traders were jumping in instantly and the stocks weren't waiting. And just like that, things changed. And I had to make a decision of whether or not I was going to wait until the opening bell. So what I discovered was that when you have a stock that has really good news, it's going to squeeze. And if you wait till 930, you're just going to miss that whole beginning of the move. Now, one of the things that's challenging with pre-market trading, and this is true, not just pre-market, but really any time you're trading, breaking news, is that the second the news comes out, so let's sort of like work through, how does this happen? So the company has a headline. They've already written it. They've had their attorneys look it over, you know, it's compliant with the exchanges and the rules and everything else, and they schedule it to get released. So they usually schedule it through this sort of PR scheduler. It's going to hit the newswire right at the time they select it. So let's say 8, 839, usually they just select a round, obvious number like that. They're not going to set the PR to release at 813 in the morning. You almost never see that. So it's 8, 839, 930. And usually these press releases come out after hours and pre-market. After hours is very common for large cap stocks to release earnings, and that's always been true. And so after hours trading has been something I've done over the years, but not as frequently because usually I don't want to take the risk with after hours trading. Pre-market is a little different. That's the time that we see a lot of small cap companies put out news. I think they put out their news early in hopes that the market responds really well. And then the stock ends up having a really great day of trading action. So nonetheless, we've got our pre-market session and all of a sudden we've got the news wire, the news that hits the wire, the second it hits the wire, what happens? That news feed is constantly being scrubbed by high frequency trading algorithms. So let's say there's a news headline and that news headline has a couple of keywords like Google, you know, partnership. So I bet that right there is a phrase that if that phrase is ever in a news headline, a high frequency HFT algo is going to immediately initiate a buy order. So it's like instantaneously that happens. So then when we're looking at the level two, the second and I mean the second news comes out. Boom, you're seeing orders going through on the tape in green. Now, sometimes that knee-jerk reaction, which is caused in part by high frequency trading algorithms is wrong. Sometimes it pops up and then individual investors have a chance to actually read the headline and they're like, whoa, that's garbage headline and the stock reverses. So this is something that does happen fairly often. In fact, one of the trades I took today was a good example of this. We had breaking news that came out. The stock initially squeezes up and then it reverses back down. And I was still able to make money on it because the stock went up almost two dollars a share from about 450 up to almost 650 and then back down. But this was risky and this does highlight the risk of trading some of these early moves, but as you certainly saw from the slide, let's see back here, if we could just jump back to the first one, this was an example where breaking news came out. The stock starts squeezing initially on those high frequency trading algorithm orders that went through and then it just retail traders jump on and next thing, you know, it's up 100, 200, 300 percent. So it starts squeezing and it just does not look back, which is that's kind of the perfect scenario. That's what we'd like to see. So when that happens, if you're not interested in participating in that part of the move, you're just going to miss it entirely. So what I usually try to do, and this is a little bit more about strategy than pre-market trading specifically, but it's still important. So I'll just say pre-market and this is also after hours. So I'll say and after hours strategy. So the way I like to approach this is initially the stock pops up right here. And this is this first pop. So it's been going sideways right here. And then boom, news comes out right there and it pops up on that first pop. Those are the high frequency trading algos. All right, so they're the ones that jump it up right there. And then usually it's going to pause just for a moment. And if it pushes higher, that's where I'm buying. This is called a micro pullback. So I'm going to put a link to my micro pullback PDF in the description and I'll pin it to the top of the comments. You can download my micro pullback strategy as a PDF resource. You can print it out and you can start practicing it on your own if you'd like. Now, as always, if you're practicing a strategy that's new, although it works really well for me, you should always practice it in a simulator, just to test it out and make sure it works well for you before you put real money on the line. So what I like to do is I like to wait for this first pattern to form right here before taking the trade because sometimes, especially in a hot market, it's easy for a stock to come out with news, hit the scanner and for us to be tempted to jump in it instantly before it's even pulled back. Now, the way I find these stocks, both pre-market during regular trading hours and after hours is by using these scanners, which are part of the day, trade dash software that I've built out. So a stock is going to hit these scanners right here. And when it hits the scanner, I pull up the ticker and I check to see what's going on with it. What's the news? Why is it moving? So B-U-R-U, for instance, you've got I don't even see a clear headline on this. So, you know, look, it went from $60 up to $260 after hours. I don't see news on it fresh for this morning. This was from yesterday morning or yesterday afternoon. It's still relatively new, but it was from yesterday. So I'm not sure what the catalyst was, but nonetheless, if I saw it popping up, then I'd be waiting for that micro pullback and the next leg higher. As long as I, of course, did my due diligence, check to make sure the stock met my five pillars for stock selection, which I talk about in the micro pullback strategy PDF and that I've vetted the news and understand the fundamental catalyst. So at that point, the stock hits the scanner and then I'm looking for that first pullback. And this is what I'm doing at this point every single day and it begins pre-market. OK, so while the market officially pre-market starts at 4 AM, what you may know from your broker is that most retail brokers don't allow trading before 7 AM. So 7 AM to 9 30 AM is sort of right now our kind of most active pre-market session. If we look at the chart here and we look at volume, you'll see that typically right at let's see, oh, it's up here, typically right at 7 AM, you'll see a surge of volume come in. So let's see. So look at CX AI. And let's just see if we see a spike of volume at 7 AM. So this one, this one's actually kind of interesting. It doesn't have a spike of volume at 7 AM. Let's see. What was another one we had this morning? Or maybe we could look at GNLN. This was another one that was active. Yeah, but that this one, see, this one wasn't a mover that started. I'm trying to find a good one that started after hours. Because usually it's when the move starts after hours, do you get that kind of pop right at 7 AM? So this one, the move started at 8 40, so that's not a good example. I can't think of one right off the top of my head, but but that's fine. So typically what happens is you'll see a stock trading and then right at about right at about 7 AM, that's when it kind of picks up. That's when the volume comes in and that's when it starts moving fast. So we sort of wait till usually 7 AM. So for me, I don't sit down at 4 AM to start trading on a typical day. Now, if I mean Europe and I'm up early, you know, I might sit down 11 AM or something like that in Europe, which is 5 AM Eastern Standard Time. But when I'm in Eastern Standard Time, I usually sit down around 6 30. So I can be watching the market starting at about 7. Because what I know is that if there's a stock that has a really strong catalyst pre market, there's a lot of traders are going to want to start trading at the second they're able to and that's going to be at 7 AM. So for me, pre market is generally my trades are from 7 AM to 9 30. Now, I want to show something to you real quick here. Let's do these are my metrics here for the last nine years of trading. So I'm going to do a custom range. I'll just go, let's see, we'll just do we'll just do a year to date for a second. Or actually what we're going to do, we're going to do last last year, but I'm going to just change this. So I'm going to go 16 through 2019 and we're going to go like that. So from 2016 through 2019 is about $1.6 million of profit. And look at when my trading began, you could see right here, my trading began. It says 9 AM, but that's because this is so if I do 30 minutes or 15 minutes, you'll see that my trading began at 9 30. There's a couple of trades, $11,000 of profit from pre market. In was that for 16, 17, 18, 19, four years of trading. And the rest of the profit came between 9 30 and 10 at 9 30 and 9 45, 9 45 and 10. And then from 10 AM on, let's extend this through. So I don't know why they do December because now I've got a guess. I guess I'll just I'll take a guess at it. Let's guess March 2020. And let's see if that's going to work. So March of 2020, still the same, right? So trading is still basically nothing pre market, no change. And now let's look at March of 2020. So we'll do March, March 1st, 2020, whatever. That's fine. And we're going to go till 2025. We'll just go through current and now let's take a look at this. OK, so now what you're going to see is look at this transition. Trading has moved back earlier. So I used to be peaking. I'm still peaking at 9.00 at 9.00 AM, I guess between 9 and 10.00 AM. But it starts a lot earlier and I've done really well in these early trading hours. So from seven to eight to nine and then a little less to 10 until 11. And generally, after hours, I don't trade that much or even in the afternoon. And in fact, doesn't look like I'm net profitable trading after hours. So that's also noteworthy. Yeah, I'm not. So I'm just looking at that and confirming. So this is the window and we can go 30 minute or 15 minute. But you can see a little bit of trading early here. This was like GameStop trading some GameStop. And then seven AM is really when I start seven, 30, eight, eight, 39. So the nine to nine, 30, nine, 30, 10, et cetera. That's the window. So essentially what happened was and it happened very quickly, it was within we could look at March to April, 2020. I don't know if that's going to go if that's going to work. No, that didn't work. Oh, come on, doesn't matter. You get the idea. So the idea is this happened, this shift occurred very quickly and was during the pandemic. So it must have been right around March or April of 2020. OK, so now my trading day has started a little bit earlier. Instead of starting at nine, I started like six, 30. So yeah, I pushed my day back. I started a little earlier, but I also finish a little bit earlier. So now let's talk about some of the limitations of extended hours because some of these are significant. Number one, there's no options trading in the after hours market. So this was kind of crazy because when we talk about a stock like GameStop, GameStop made these incredible moves, but what's so frustrating for a lot of people and a lot of people being the people who were buying GameStop options is that they weren't able to take profit because the move was happening after hours. They have to go back onto a longer time frame. But if we go back here, you know, like this day here, I think this day would actually hit $90 after hours or pre market. But that's $30 to share that you weren't able to lock up in profit if you were stuck in options because options don't trade until the opening bell. So for a stock like GameStop, you can't trade those options pre market and you can't trade them after hours. All right, so there's no options trading. Well, if you're a small cap trader, that doesn't make too big of a difference. Well, here's something that does make a bigger difference. After hours trading does not allow leverage. So you may if you're ever trading later in the day, you'll see usually a message on your trading screen. It'll be like right up here and it'll say, make sure you close all positions on leverage by three forty five before four PM. Otherwise, you get auto liquidated and your broker will close them for you. So margin positions have to be liquidated by four PM. And this is one of the reasons that sometimes we'll see a short squeeze begins between three thirty and continues after hours as a stock that's been holding up really well forces shorts to cover if they're holding on leverage. And then that creates a surge of buying and then that's when you get that big squeeze. We saw that with GameStop, we've seen that with dozens of other stocks. So if you're holding a stock on leverage, you have to be aware that you can't hold it on leverage after hours. And if you're wanting to trade breaking news after hours, you can't use any leverage. However, pre-market does allow the use of leverage, which is kind of interesting. It's the beginning of the day and so they just allow it. So pre-market allows the use of leverage. Now, it's possible that there are some brokers that will have variations on these rules. So it's possible. So if you're an exception to that, that's fine. That's great. But this is what I've experienced with the brokers that I've traded with for the most part. So you have no leverage after hours, but yes, leverage pre-market. Okay. So now that's a one vote in favor of pre-market against after hours. Number three, there's no stop orders of any type. Uh-oh, no stop orders. So right now is after hours trading as you as you probably well know. So let's say, for instance, I want to trade apple. All right, let's just say I want to buy, you know, one share of it. Doesn't matter. So I want to buy one share of apple. I'll just go ahead and for the sake of this video, I'll buy one share. So this order is going to go through because it's 642 PM. It's after hours trading and my time and force is day. Now, if I did an order for market day only and I send it, it's going to actually automatically cancel the order. It's going to disappear because it's not currently market day, right? It's it's after hours so you could see my order. I try to place it and it's just getting automatically rejected. If I try to do a stop order and I said, I want to buy this. I want to use a buy stop at $20.20.90. That's going to reject as well. You can't use buy orders. You can't use buy stops. You can't use sell stops. Now, of course, I wouldn't be able to do this either anyways, because I can't short in a retirement account, which is what I'm in. But this is what would leave some traders saying, son of a gun, I can't seem to buy at all and I can't buy there. I'm pressing the buy button and nothing is working. This is ridiculous and it's confusing. OK, so there are no stop orders pre-market and there are no market orders pre-market or after hours. The only type of order you can use, in fact, is a limit order. And the limit order is going to require an offset in order to get filled, as I mentioned right there. And I'm going to talk about exactly how that works. OK, so let's let's before we do that, let's go ahead and talk about the advantages of extended hours trading. And now we're going to get into how to actually place the orders in think or swim, we will light speed and then how to use your hotkey settings. So the advantages of extended hours trading is you now have the ability to begin trading the moment news breaks. The second news comes out, you could trade. So you're no longer missing out on the beginning of the move, which means you're able to capitalize during periods of peak volatility. You'll also notice there are fewer high frequency trading algorithms during the pre-market session. And it's actually it's really incredible. I'm going to pull this up here. So this is my think or swim account. We're going to switch over to charts and book map. And what you're going to see here is this is a stock and this is showing regular trading hours here. We just grab my pointer tool. So regular trading hours, pre-market, extended hours. I'm sorry, that's actually not extended. What is that right there? No, that's not extended hours. That's just later in the day. This right here is a start right at eight AM. Look at how this is. This is what's fascinating to me. So with the this is showing you a view of all of the big buy and sell orders that are on the book. And so all of a sudden on this one right at nine thirty, this is nine thirty opening bell right here. All of a sudden right at nine thirty, all these orders came right on the book where they come from. They weren't there pre-market, but they popped up as soon as the nine thirty bell rings. And where do they go away? Exactly at four p.m. So it's like almost a light switch on and off during regular trading hours. The market fills in with all these high frequency trading algorithms and all these additional orders. The market turns off and they're gone. So we end up seeing bigger moves pre-market and after hours in many cases and more consolidation and congestion during regular trading hours. Now, of course, there are exceptions where we will see a stock make a huge move during regular trading hours, but it's just not as common. So one of the advantages is that there are fewer high frequency trading algos. I'll talk about why in a second. And there's also just fewer traders. So the stocks are less crowded and the price action can be more predictable right after breaking news. So if we look back at this, essentially what happens at nine thirties, all of a sudden all these orders come online. So what we know is that there are a lot of people who will trade, but they're not they're not trading full time, just, you know, so let's say here, let's just say I'm holding a position of Apple, I've been holding it for a long time or let's just say I want to buy a position, whatever. So I could do a we're going to do a limit order and we're going to do good till canceled and we'll see if this is going to go through. Now, I don't usually place these kind of orders, but we're just going to go ahead and place it at 20 to 20. Let's see if it'll cancel. No, so it's going to sit there. OK, so this is an order that's going to sit there on the book. However, this time and force of goods will cancel. I could log out of my platform and it'll still be there, but this order doesn't go to the market on except during regular trading hours. So the second, the bell rings at nine 30. Let's say overnight, Apple has really bad news and drops down to two 19. The second the market opens at nine 30. My order will go through if it's above the market price. And there's also sell orders that will go through the second the bell rings. So all of a sudden, all the orders that people have out there that are set as good till cancel, those orders come on the book and on the market at the opening bell. So when you have a stock that has been selling off for a long time and is suddenly gapping up, you may have people who, you know, look, the stock's been selling off for a long time and maybe they've been holding and they say, you know what, I'm just going to put a sell order up here. And hey, if at some point I'm at work and this sell order goes through, I'll just be grateful. So all of a sudden pre market that stock is now trading, let's say up here. It's above their sell order. The second the bell rings, boom, their sell order goes through. And so what happens sometimes right at the opening bell is we see a drop as all those sell orders go through. What's crazy is the stock was trading above all of those sell orders. And the reason it's trading above them is because all of these orders are good till canceled so they they're not on the market pre market. So the stock could trade way above it or way below it. And there's no stop orders pre marketer after hours. So a stock could trade way above a stop order or way below a stop order. And you might think that doesn't make sense. Why would that be the case? And the reason it's the case is because historically, because volume in after hours trading has been so light, if one big hedge fund came in and said, hey, you know, let's let's go and just short, you know, a huge chunk of Apple, it wouldn't be hard for them to drive the price down. And then what they would do is they would trigger all of these stop orders, which would drive the price down even further. And then what they would do is they would come in and buy a huge chunk right here. And then the stock goes up and they're making money. Now that is illegal. It's called stop hunting. You're not supposed to do it. But the thing is market makers and hedge funds, they don't have a fiduciary obligation to to other market participants only to their own clients. And of course, there's there are rules about manipulative activity. But what we have seen historically over the years is that these hedge funds play these games and so stop orders are not allowed pre-market because of stop hunting. Because what you could end up having happened is essentially a flash crash. We're all of a sudden the stock dumps because all these people are getting their stop orders hit on a very light volume candle wick. So if you look at some stocks and I'll cancel this order, so I don't forget about it. If you look at some stocks, you'll see that most stocks after hours, just pull up Apple, for example. So Apple today traded 44 million shares of volume. So that's a lot of volume, no doubt about it. But during the after hours trading session, look how much volume peaked going in this. So this is a one block order. So there's a block orders go through periodically. So that's like one big transaction. But for the most part, the volume on these individual candles, 300, let's see. Why is it not showing me? Oh, it's down there. So 90,000 shares, 3,000 shares, 60,000 shares, whereas these candles are like 250, 300,000 share candles. So all of a sudden the volume is a fraction. And look at some of these candle wicks. It doesn't take much for a big buy order, a big sell order, push the price up or down. And when it happens, when there's zero news at all, that's when it's going to start triggering these stop orders. So most stocks are like this after hours in pre market. Look at IBM after hours. There's zero volume. I mean, literally it trades 240,000 shares in the last five minutes. And then excluding that block, it's trading 110 shares, 98, 698 shares, 453 shares. It's trading nothing. It's amazing to me when I've watched. When I'm watching the level two, as we go from pre market to after hours, just to watch as it's like the lights kind of just turn off. All of a sudden it's like we're offline. The stocks trading, trading, trading, trading, trading, and then boom, everything's quiet. Let's see if I have I might have a good recording of this. No, I guess I don't. I had some at one point, but I don't remember what I did with them or if I uploaded them or put them somewhere, but but it's fine. So you could see it though, certainly very clearly when you're looking at this histogram where you could just see the market just goes away. Let's look at Apple. So Apple, what happens at 4 p.m? Sort of pull up Apple. We're going to zoom it out. Oh, come on. I got to let's see. What time slices? Let's try IBM. I don't remember how to make it show me more time. Let's see. It's like all scrunched back over there. I don't know. This is platforms a little glitchy, unfortunately. So I think you get the idea though. You could see there's a ton of orders and then right at 4 p.m. They pretty much all disappear. So yeah, it's just I wish it was a little easier for me to show you. But it doesn't seem like it wants to be easy for me. So anyways, that's fine. So right at 4 p.m. The market kind of shuts off and right at 9 30 a.m. The market turns on. So that's kind of that big moment where we see the orders come in and the orders go away. So the reason you've got higher, lower, fewer, high frequency trading algorithms pre market after hours is because those algorithms are taking advantage of traders market orders that are coming in and out of the market. And so all of a sudden they fill in and they're taking advantage of all the liquidity that is occurring between 9 30 and 4 p.m. That's when they make the most money, just slicing, you know, fractions of a penny off of every order that goes through. So during pre market and after hours trading, when you have more volatility, historically those high frequency trading algorithms turn off. And that's actually what we were seeing on that chart on G and Ellen back here. This move, all of a sudden you had this area, this orange is showing you all of the orders that were on the book. And then when the stock starts squeezing, everything disappears. So the al goes almost it's almost like they turn off and the market just rips. So it's some people talk about the fact that high frequency traders, high frequency trading algorithms and the firms that run them promote themselves as creating liquidity in the market. They're a vital source of liquidity in the market. If you want to buy or you want to sell, they are there on the other side to take your shares and then they benefit from arbitrage by reselling your shares a few minutes later for a profit. So just jumping in, jumping out, jumping in, jumping out. But there's a bit of an illusion because they're providing a lot of liquidity when the markets are range bound, but when the markets are volatile, these algorithms automatically turn off. Why? Because if all the sudden stock is spiking up, the algo doesn't want to keep shorting, shorting, shorting, shorting, shorting, and unlimited number of shares on something like GameStop, they get destroyed. So when a stock breaks out of a standard deviation and is above certain thresholds, a lot of these algos simply turn off and they go trade other stocks that are in a compressed range because that's where they make the money. When you're buying and selling and all you're making are fractions of a penny, the goal is to be flat at the end of each day. So you don't want to go wicked short, a stock only for it to rip up or buy a stock that's dumping because it has news that it's going bankrupt. So these high frequency trading algorithms are incredibly sophisticated in the way they learn how to adapt to changes in price action. So when markets are very sideways and consolidated, these algos are right there and the stocks become very thick. But when the volatility picks up, the algos turn off. OK, so so for that reason, during the periods of time when a company has breaking news, it's going to have peak volatility, high frequency trading algorithms are going to turn off anyways. And usually those news headlines are coming out pre-market and after hours. Most companies don't put out breaking news in the middle of the day unless it's like critical and a lot of times they'll halt the stock when the news comes out to give traders a chance to digest the news before they start trading. All right, so now you understand, I think, the advantages and limitations, but let's come back to this concept of no stop orders, no market orders. In other words, limit orders only. And we're going to I'm going to walk you through how to actually place these orders. So most of you are probably not using light speed, which is a software that I'm using for trading. A lot of you may be using something like think or swim. So I'm going to show you on thinkorswim first. I'm going to go to trade and I'm going to I'm just going to pull it forward here just so it's like a boring stock that's not super volatile. And I'm not going to do something by accident and be down a ton. So I'll just put the order for one share. Now, if I place this order right now, if I click the if I click by market, what's going to happen? By market, by market, by market. What is going on? I'm clicking by market. I see plus three market times three. What in the world is going on? I go to my monitor, right? What's it showing? I've got zero quantity. What in the heck is going on? So I'm going to pop this out and put it right here. This is my positions window and these are my working orders. I have zero filled orders. I have zero canceled orders. So what's happening is the order is automatically not filling. It's going to sit there and wait and wait and wait. When will it execute tomorrow at nine thirty a.m? So that's not going to work. I'm not going to be able to get pre get in pre marketer after hours like that. So let's switch back to trade. Now, I have some hotkeys set up, but I'm going to go ahead. Let's see if I can cancel all I'll cancel all right here. So all those orders are canceled. All right, a few. That was a close one. So what if I say, all right, so I've got to buy I can't buy market because that's right. There's no market orders pre marketer after hours. So I'll click buy ask. Excellent. All right. So now I'm getting filled or am I some of a gun. It's not working. The order is just sitting there. What is going on? Cancel all. Hmm. This is a mystery time and force change it to extended. Now, let's click buy market. Still not going to work. Sorry, cannot accept market orders unless you have day time and force. Let's click buy ask. I now own one share of Ford. I've taken an after hours trade. I'm in and if I want to get out, uh-oh, Ford is tanking. Bad news, sell market, shoot, that's not going to work. Sell bid. OK, I'm out. I only lost a penny. Not bad, could have been worse. All right. So what you need to do is change your time and force to extended. That's all you have to do. Just change it to extended. I leave auto send on for me, but you change it to extended and you click buy ask. Sell bid or you could click sell ask. So buy ask, I'll get back in and then sell ask. So I can put my order on the ask price. So there you've got the level two right here and you could see the order sitting right there. So I could put the order there and then I'm selling on the ask. So this is and then of course I can click this out to cancel it if I want to. And if I just want to go ahead and sell on the bid, I could sell on the bid and I'm probably going to be down two cents. Yep. In fact, I'm down two cents, but it's tolerable. Awesome. So, you know, you live and learn. OK, so this is how you trade with thinkorswim. Now, one of the problems with thinkorswim that a lot of people have is let's say you want to buy 10,000 or 50,000 shares or something crazy like that. You want to buy a huge position and you want to get in this. What's going to happen is how many shares are for sale at $10 and 12 cents? 22 plus six. So you've got 2,800 shares. I want to buy 5,000. I'm not going to get filled. My whole order will not fill at that price. So what I need to do is I need to create an offset. So what a lot of us would end up doing is we would go, we would do one of two things. We would turn off the auto send. We would click buy and then we would manually move the price up like this, which is a little bit of a pain in the butt. So you'd move the price up like that and then you'd click send. All right, that's a little cumbersome, right? That's a little too slow because you've got to open that order window. So I don't like to do that, but what I can do is I can click the instant buy here. And let's see. So this is at 10 30. Oh, my golly, let's see. Hopefully that did not go through. I think it did not because it's at after hours. So what was that position for? That was for 5,000 shares rejected. Yeah, OK, so this is by the way, something you've got to be careful with with your defaults with finger swim. This drives me crazy because you've got these two windows here and it'll default to what you had previously. OK, nonetheless, let's go into hotkeys. Let me show you with the hotkeys. So go into your settings up here, go to application settings, go to hotkeys. And the way I set my hotkeys is shift one is by market. Shift two is by ask by market by ask. So if I buy the ask, I'm going to get filled at the ask price. Control Z is sell market. Control K is sell ask. Control sorry, Alt Z is to sell the bid. So I always want to be able to get in and get out using those hotkeys. So by ask and then control Z. So that means right here, I've got this set for one share. We're going to do one share here. And I'm going to press shift two. So let's see, there we go. And then I can press Alt Z and Alt Z should get me back out. And just like that, by pressing the buttons, I'm in and out. So the hotkeys are moving me in and out of this trade, which is a lot easier. Now this level two window, this is something that's always drive me crazy. Let's see what it does here. Yeah, because it's still bringing up the ticket for 5,000 shares. You've got to go in here. Where is it? Application settings. Just order defaults. I'll set it to one. Let's see. And you could say default time. You could set it to extended hours. Limit standard. Yeah, so there we go. So I'm going to apply the setting and let's see what happens if I click here. So now it's going to be on one. So now I turn the auto send on and I can point and click. So I could click right here and I can get in just with auto send clicking point and click. And that's going to be probably the fastest way for most people because that way you're clicking here and your order is going to go through at 10, 19. So you can buy with a click and you can sell with Control Z, which is selling at the bid. Or of course you can sell by pointing and clicking. That's going to be the fastest way for most traders. You just have to make sure you adjust your default settings for the position size that you want because what you type in here is not going to default down here, even though you think it should and it probably should. It won't and it's going to throw you off. OK, so for some of you who are using a third party integration, you can use third party integrations with finger swim, but I personally don't really like using third party integrations. I'd rather trade just through the native software that's offered by the vendor. Now with Webull, this is another popular platform. There is a little bit better because what you can do is in your order entry window, you can go to turbo trader settings. You can create a order for buy ask and you can add an offset, which means your order is always going to be 10 cents higher than the current ask. You just simply click extended hours right here and you're done. So now you click the buy 100 ask and just like that, you're adding and that button that you set up is based on these these settings. So it's this is this this is what it is. So you said to 1000 if you want to 1000. All right, so done, boom, that's by 1000. Now you go into here and you can do the same thing. You could sell on the bid minus 10 cents to give yourself a little bit of an offset, but you could also change that to quantity and do percent. You could do 25 percent. So to scale out, or you could do 50 percent, whatever you want. So this is actually a much more sophisticated hotkey. You could sell on the ask. You could do an offset for profit to put a profit target, 10 cents above the ask. As soon as you get in, you put a profit target order out, right? You could do that if you wanted to. Again, you could do it based on percentage, 25 percent profit target. So you've got a lot more flexibility with the hot keys in in in Webull for those you guys are using Webull. So this is not a bad one. Now, I'm not using Webull for for my trading. I've used thinkorswim. In fact, I sent it my first account there and it was a merit trade at the time. It was like 2001 or 2002. So I've been pretty loyal to them, but I feel a little like almost guilty even talking about another platform behind their back, but at the same time, unfortunately, thinkorswim doesn't cater to active traders and it's notable in the fact that they haven't updated some very easy to update elements of their platform, but Webull does cater to more of these active traders and their platform is a little bit better in some ways. So anyways, I just got the demo just to practice it and I was pretty impressed. So that's Webull. That's thinkorswim. So all my orders are I have no working order, so I'm all canceled. And so that's fine. Close that now on light speed, which is the software I've been using for a long time. Here, we already talked about the good till cancel orders and what I'm using by default, our limit orders and I just put day and day works pre-market and after hours, it works pre-market after hours. So you don't have to go change anything, which was confusing for me. Because that's not the way it works with other platforms. So now if I want to buy one share here, boom, I'm in one share, filled 2065. Got filled between the spread. That's my one share that went through it. Well, actually, I don't know if that was the one, but it's one share. So whatever I got filled, that's great. And then if I want to turn around and sell it, I can move this order down and press the cell button or I use my hotkey control Z and I'm out. This is how I usually get in. I'll see a stock that hits my scanner. Let's say it's Apple. I click on the level two and I'm like, OK, I like this. I'm going to move my order up a few cents and then I put my hand over the buy button and I'm waiting to see green on the tape. And as soon as I see it, boom, I punch that order. I'm in. Now I'm looking for immediate resolution. Remember, that setup that I'm buying is based on the micro pullback strategy that we've already talked about, right? We're taking that micro pullback strategy. So let's we get that little pullback just for a second, which hopefully you guys have already downloaded the PDF for the micro pullback strategy. So we get that little micro pullback, we get a quick little dip. And then as it pops back up, that's the spot where I'm adding. So I'm looking for the green on a tape. I jump in right there. I click that buy button, I'm in one share. It squeezes up to 20 to 75, 85, 95, 95. I could put out a profit target order. So control P. I put out a profit target order here on this. Let's see. Well, that's interesting. For some reason that order's not going through. I wonder if it's because the hotkeys being tied up by thinkorswim, it might be, but nonetheless, doesn't matter. So you can put out the profit target or not. You could sell on the ass, put the order right there on the ask. So now I'm on the ask 20, 69. And when I want to sell either I get filled on the ask or control Z, I hit the bed and I'm out. So in light speed, you could set up your hotkeys under custom orders right here. So you could buy a thousand shares buying at the ask plus 15 cents. You've got your offset right there. It's a limit order. It's this is going to work any time of the day or night from four a.m. Until eight p.m. This order is going to work. I go in here, let's see, sell bid. Let's see the profit target, sell profit, 20 cents. These are all my profit target orders. So limit minus 20, 20 cents above the ask. Edjects, I bet that's the problem. NSDQ, I bet Edjects is offline right now. NSDQ. So we could not that it really matters to take more trades, but sell ask full. Sell order ask full position, right? Quarter, half, you can set it as you'd like. When I want to sell on the bid, sell bid full. Ten cents below the bid, boom. I can be getting in and getting out as quick as pressing buttons. It is so fast. Now, that's that's the benefit with light speed plus the software. But you could do the exact same thing with Webull. The only difference is their routing is different because it's a payment for order flow broker, so it's commission free. So your routing is going to be a little different, but you could set up your workflow with your hotkeys. The exact same as what I have with Thinkorswim. You could be similar, but not the exact same because it's just a little bit different. And the reason Thinkorswim is a little different is because they don't give you the offset. They don't give you the ask plus and they don't give you the ability to sell based on a percentage. So those are the couple areas where Thinkorswim does fall short. But a lot of people use Thinkorswim and they're happy with it. And if you do the pointer click, that's probably going to be your easiest way to move in and out. So now you know how to place orders. Now you know the hotkeys settings and I'm going to give you a link for a two week trial that you can use anytime you want. So that link will be posted to the top of the comments right next to my micro pullback strategy PDF. It's also going to be posted linked in the description. So I hope you check out two week trial. I hope you download that micro pullback strategy PDF. And if you enjoyed this episode and you found this helpful, hit that thumbs up, please subscribe to the channel and I'll see you for the next upload real soon and I'll remind you as always that, hey, trading is risky. My results are typical, so manage your risk, take it slow and I'll see you back here for the next episode real soon.