# 52. Proven Formula for Finding BEST Stocks to Day Trade (Step-by-Step Guide)
# id=E2SYZEF5AEs (whisper base.en)

In today's episode, I'm going to teach you how to find stocks to day trade every single day with consistency and confidence. You know how we're going to do it? We're going to do it by creating a process that is repeatable. I'm going to share with you the process that I've been using every single day for more than a decade to find the best stocks to trade. What you might find interesting is that on any given day, I'm typically trading different stocks. That's because as an active trader, I crave volatility. It goes without saying that you don't make money buying something at $5 and selling something at $5. You want to buy something at $5 and sell it at $5.50 for a 10% return. And now the challenge is, how do I find the stocks today to have the potential to make a 10, 20, 30, 40, 50% or higher return? The best way to do this is to search for stocks that have a catalyst, a breaking news event this morning. I'm going to share with you the tools I use and the process that I go through every single morning to find these stocks. We're going to jump onto the screen share and what you're actually going to see is my trades from today will be a perfect case study of this system that I use. I'm up $14,982.14 and I did that finding a stock through the system I'm going to share and then trading it according to the momentum-traying strategy that I'm also going to share with you in today's episode. Let me be the first to tell you that my results are not typical. My name is Ross Cameron. I'm a full-time trader. In fact, I funded my first real money account in 2001. That was when I began trading and back in those days, I was trading large caps. Today, it's much different. You'll see the stocks I trade, their lower price, their highly volatile and in today's episode, I want to compare and contrast large caps versus small caps and help you understand why I think the stocks that I trade every single day really are the best for active retail traders. Okay, let's go ahead and we're going to make this slide deck full-screen. We've also got my whiteboard here, so if we need to take some notes and draw here, this will be helpful for you guys and we're going to start with going over the topics for today's class. Naturally, I'm going to share with you what I think are the best stocks today trade in my humble opinion. I'm going to share with you five pillars of stock selection. The criteria that I use to evaluate whether or not a stock is even worth trading. I'm going to share with the scanners that I use and how I filter them and how I've used the settings to search the market in real time for the stocks that I think are the best. We're going to talk about large caps versus small caps and I'm going to share with you my day trading strategy. Are you guys ready to jump in? We've got a lot to cover and for those of you that want to be able to have all the notes for this class in one nicely organized place, I'm actually going to give you a PDF that you can download. The PDF right here, it is a six-page PDF that's going to break down all of my criteria for stock selection, including my process. There will be a link pinned to the top comment and link in the description that you guys can download. Check out that download. That way, you don't have to take notes while you're listening. You can just enjoy this episode and then print out the notes later and use them on your own as you're practicing. As always, I'd encourage you when you're learning a new strategy and you're practicing the strategy that I share with you, practice it in a simulator to test it out before you take the risk of putting real money on the line. First, before we talk about the best stock to day trade, let's talk about the worst stock to day trade. I think by looking at the very worst, this can sometimes help just to sort of invert it because now you know what you don't want to trade and no offense to Ford Motor Company and to anyone driving a Ford, this is not a personal attack by any means, but Ford is not a stock you want to day trade. Why? Because it's going sideways. This is a barcode. We call stocks barcodes when they look like this and pop off the cap of these two. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. It's going sideways. You don't make money buying a stock that goes sideways. So a stock like Ford, a stock like Bank of America, serious satellite radio. These stocks just go sideways. In fact, if we looked at the market right now, I would wager that approximately 98% of all stocks in the market right now are trading with an arrange of less than 5% up and less than 5% down. So that's the bulk of all the stocks in the market, but there are a small percentage right now that are up more than 5% or down more than 5%. And these are the ones that we want to pay attention to. These are the stocks doing something exceptional today. And for most of them, they've got a catalyst. They've got a reason to buck the trend of the overall market. They're up 30%, 40%, 50% in some cases because the company just came out with breaking news. And it's good news and traders and investors are jumping on it. So a stock like Ford, you can obviously see the chart is going sideways. And if you looked at the level two, this is called a level two window. It's the depth of the market. So this is actually showing us all of the buy orders on the left. This is the bid and all of the sell orders on the right. This is the ask. This is the auction where all the buyers and sellers come. Buyers are sitting here, sellers are sitting here and they're waiting for traders to come and buy their shares or sell shares to them. So what we notice here is that this is what we would call a very thickly traded stock. We've got two, four, six, eight, 10, 12, 14, 15, and even more because I'm not scrolled down all the way, 15 buyers all bidding at the same price of 10, 44. Now you might think 15 buyers in the entire stock market, that's not too many. But this does have 27 million shares of volume and each one of these buyers represents, in some cases, thousands or tens of thousands of shares. So this is hundreds of thousands, even millions of dollars sitting on the bid waiting to buy and they have the same thing on the offer. So when a stock has this many buyers and sellers, I want you to imagine for a second, jumping into a swimming pool filled with oatmeal. How slow you would move through it, it might even hurt when you jump in. This is a stock that's going to move very slowly. There are so many buyers. There are so many sellers. In order for this stock to go up 10%, it would need millions and millions of shares of volume. It would need so much volume that, in fact, it's almost not plausible that it would go up that much in a single day. And you know what? That makes Ford a great stock for a pension fund, for a mutual fund, maybe for a 401K because you don't want a stock that's going to drop 50% in one day. If you don't want to drop 50% in one day, it also means it probably doesn't have the potential to go up 50% in one day. So you want to reduce your risk for those long term holds where you really want slow, steady gains. But as a day trader, slow and steady gains aren't going to pay the bills. Now when I got started, I had a goal of producing $1,000 per week from the market. But I didn't have a big account. I wanted $1,000 a week, and when I first funded my account, I funded it with $5,000. So to make $1,000 a week with a $5,000 account, that's a 20% weekly return. Getting 20% a week is not easy. Getting 20% a year is not easy. And you're not going to do it with stocks like Ford or Bank of America or Satellit Radio or any of those. You need to find a little bit of a different area in the market. Now, of course, every day trader I suppose is going to come to the market with a different account size, perhaps different expectations, different goals. But what I have found is that most retail traders, most of us start with relatively small accounts. And so in order to make money, we need stocks that are going up 10, 15, 20, 30%, 40%, 50% or maybe even more in a single day. And what you're going to learn is those stocks all share a set of common denominators. Those are the five pillars of stock selection that I'm going to share with you. So this, I would say, is one of the best stocks to trade, certainly today. This is my P&L for today, like I said, just under $15,000. And I made it in about, well, the 12,000 I made in about 30 minutes on C-I-N-G. That was my best stock that I traded today. And this is a day where I really did quite well. This is five, sorry, three times my $5,000 daily goal. So I had made a promise that any time I was double the daily goal or higher, I would teach a long-form episode about the strategy, the process, or the technique that I used on that particular day. And so the topic of today's classic course is how to find the best stocks to day trade. And by the way, if you haven't already hit the thumbs up or subscribe the channel, I hope you do both so you can watch more episodes about trading strategy just like this one. So this is, of course, the stock that I trade today. And I'm going to do a case study on how I found this stock and why I chose this stock out of all the others in the market that I could have possibly chosen. This is another stock. This was just on Monday, $24,821. This stock went from $2 a share all the way up to nearly $11, an incredible intraday move. And in fact, by the end of the day, it went up to nearly $21 a share. This is another stock. Third one here, this stock, again, very big move from $0.50 up to $1 share up over 100% on breaking news. It gave me about $11,000 a total profit on the day in part thanks to that stock. And this was actually my best day in the last, well, this year, my best day so far this year and this was about a month ago. We had a stock that went up about 600% from $2 to $12 here, absolutely incredible. And this is a day where there was a lot of stocks that were trading really nice, I locked up $45,000. But in fact, every single stock here, all of these stocks share the same common denominators that I'm going to share with you. Okay, so let's talk about the five pillars of stock selection. Number one is price. So I have found that I do the best on stocks between two and 20. Now when I first started trading, I was part of a, when I was in school in the late 1990s, we had a semester dedicated to the stock market where it was sort of a stock market club where every day we were partnered up with kids that were in the class. And our teacher would come in and we had sort of a mock stock market that we created in the classroom. And we were updating based on the current stock prices of these stocks and we had this big chalkboard and we all had our little portfolio that got me inspired. And so in 2001, I funded my first account with real money. And at that time, I bought large cap stocks because I really didn't know anything different, anything better. So I bought shares of companies that I was vaguely familiar with, Exxon Mobil, US Steel, Caterpillar, Pfizer. These were shares of large companies, S&P 500 companies, Dow Jones, Industrial Average Companies, General Mode or General Electric that I just sort of knew about. But you know what happened? Over the course of the next three months, my account was more or less unchanged because I bought into stocks that while now 20 years later have pretty much all increased in value, over the course of three months, didn't really do that much and certainly wasn't enough with my small $1,000 account to give me enough money to put a whole lot of attention on it. So when I came back into the market and became a full-time trader years later after I graduated high school and got through college, I took a little bit of a different approach. I had a friend in high school, his name was Ben, who actually made $16,000 trading a penny stock. So when I came back into the market, I decided that I should trade penny stocks just like Ben. If it worked for him in high school, I thought surely it would work for me. And I actually struggled with penny stocks and the reason that I struggled with penny stocks was because I had a really hard time finding the best ones to trade. So I had Google penny stocks that I should buy and I would see these Yahoo message boards and these different articles or websites where you put in your email and they'd send you emails for hot penny stocks. And while some of these stocks went up, a lot of them crashed miserably and so I lost money on them and I got frustrated. And after a period of about two years of trial and error, I accumulated a lot of trading data and a lot of losses and what I discovered was that I didn't make money on large caps, mostly because they were too expensive, they didn't move enough and for me, it felt like I was fighting against the high frequency trading algorithm, they were always one step ahead of me. I didn't make a lot of money on these really cheap penny stocks because they always seemed to crash and burn. And in fact, the stocks that I tended to do quite well on were priced actually between about $2.20. And these are my metrics right here that you can see on the screen. This is a data of about 27,500 trades, about $13 million in gross profit right here. And you can see that the bulk of my profit is trading stocks between 2 and 20. I've done well on stocks over 20, periodically, I'll get a couple of nice trades on something higher. Every now and then I get some trades on something a little lower priced. But if I was going to tell it beginner trader the sweet spot that's the most consistent for me, I would say it's going to be between 2 and 20. That's the spot you really want to focus. And in fact, within that sweet spot, between 5 and 10 is really the best. And you know why? It's because I take the approach of focusing on base hit trading. If you watch some of my other episodes, you may already know that rather than try to swing for home runs, my philosophy is that I want to just lock up a lot of nice small base hits. I don't want to take a lot of risk. I don't want to try to swing for a home run or do anything crazy. I just want a nice base hit trade. And to me, a nice base hit trade is a trade where I lock up about 15 cents per share of profit. And you know what I found? It's a lot easier to find 15 cents a share per day than to try to find a $1.50 per share per day. Even though it may be 10% here on a stock that's priced at $1.50 and this is 10% on a $1.15 stock, this is a lot easier to find, 15 cents a day. And so I started searching for 15 cents a day and I found that stocks below 2, getting 15 cents can be trying to get 10% in one move, that can be a little tricky. Stocks above $10, well those can go up and down more than 15 cents so quickly the losses can get a little big. So the price range of five to 10 is sort of the sweet spot for trying to capture those nice 10, 15, 20 cent base hits. And hey, every now and then you're going for a base hit, but you know, you kind of get lucky and you get a 30, 40, 50 cent winner, even a dollar a share and it's always nice when that happens, especially when you weren't really taking a whole lot of risk. So the first pillar of stock selection for me is to find a stock each day that's priced ideally between two and 20. The second pillar is to find a stock that's already up at least 10%. Now, as I said, in the entire market right now of thousands and thousands of stocks that you could possibly choose, let's see how many right now in that entire market are up more than 10%. So we're going to go down here, we're going to scroll down. So well, this is the top 50. So right now we've got about 50 stocks in the market that are up more than 12%. This only shows 50 stocks. So out of all the stocks in the entire market, 99% of them are not up more than 12%. All right, there's a very small handful that are. So what we can kind of do in a sense is we started with, let's say, 8,000 different equities in the market. And now just by saying minimum 10%, we've now filtered this down to about 50 stocks. Wow, that is pretty good. If you're trying to find the needle in the haystack, this has actually made it a whole lot easier. So now we've got 50 stocks to work with. Okay, but wait a second, let's not forget price filter. So we've got to add that price filter on there between two and 20. If we do that, we're going to probably knock this down to about 40 stocks. What you're going to find is that most days, the biggest percentage movers are lower price stocks. It's not very common to see $100, $200 share stocks up 30, 40, 50% in one day. So all right, so now let's say we've got approximately 40 stocks on any given day. This scanner right now is not doing a price filter. This one is actually showing me everything in the market that is up more than, well, actually it's more than 5%, but it's just the top 50. It's sorted from biggest percentage gainer to lowest. So okay, we've got a good list here, but let's see if we can filter it down a little bit more. Number three, the stock should have high relative volume. This is a phrase that not everyone is familiar with. Relative volume is the amount of volume a stock is trading today relative to what's normal for that stock. Okay, so let me give you an example here. We've got CING today. CING, this is the stock that I traded and it's currently trading on 993 times relative volume. The relative volume ratio shows 993. And what that means is that it's trading 993 times higher volume today than what is average for that stock. Whoa. So what is average for the stock? Well, yesterday it traded 104,000 shares and today it has 100 million shares, 100 million shares of volume. Absolutely crazy. We've got 98 million, 582,000 shares of volume right now. By the end of the day, this is going to be over 100 million shares. Unbelievable. How does the stock go from 100,000 shares to 100 million shares overnight? Well the result clearly is a catalyst. Now in contrast to what some people believe, it's not about the stock that has the most volume. There may be stocks out there that have more volume, but it's about the stock that has the biggest imbalance between what is average and the volume that it's experiencing today. So high relative volume is important because it's a symptom of a stock that is experiencing a likely once in a year, perhaps once in a decade, type of event. For a stock to go from 100,000 shares to 100 million, clearly something big is happening for that stock. Now if a stock trades on 100 million shares of volume every single day, then 100 million shares, even though the number is the same, isn't really significant. We look for the stocks doing something exceptional because that's where things get exciting. So number three, pillar number three is high relative volume and I said at minimum of five. Now if we look at this scan back here, you're going to see that there are going to be some stocks on here that have lower relative volume because this scanner is just searching for the biggest percentage gainers and then I manually sort out which ones I like from which ones I don't like. So this has relative volume of zero. This one's got 0.39. This one's just over the cusp at 5.39, 5.39. This one's good. This one is too low, too low, too low, good, good, right? So now we add this additional filter. So we've gone from 50 and let's just make this a little bit easier. So we went first from 50. We added our first filter which was price and that actually didn't do a whole lot because there's a whole lot of stocks that have low price but are not appropriate. So if we actually filtered it based on which ones will do the biggest damage, 10% brought us down to about 50 stocks and then adding price brought us down to about 40. And now adding five times relative volume has brought us down to probably about 25 stocks. So all of a sudden we have filtered down from potentially 8,000 stocks to day trade to 25. We can do better. Okay. We've got to find two to three good stocks to trade. Just the way I found a few today. I've got a total of four stocks I traded and I'm green on all four. Okay. So let's jump back in here. Number four is we want to find a news catalyst. This is preferred. A news catalyst is going to be the reason the stock is up as much as it is. Now there will be times where a stock will go up without a clear catalyst. I don't love it when that happens because I always feel a little like it just doesn't make sense. But there are times a stock will go up without a clear catalyst and it's still worth trading because it's very obvious. It's maybe the number one leading percentage gainer in the entire market. So in those cases, okay fine, I'll trade it. But for the most part, we prefer to see that stock has a news catalyst. And in this case, C-I-N-G, we've got a catalyst here which is that they were issued a patent. So now we're going to say we like to see news. This is preferred. So now we're going to come down to probably about 15 stocks. Okay, that's good. Now we've got one more filter that we're going to add right here. Okay. And this is float. Float is the number of shares available to trade. We'll jump back into the slide deck. We'll jump forward to float, pillar number five, see there we go. We want to see a float of less than 20 million shares available to trade. So if we go back to our scanners, the number of shares available to trade is determined when a company does its initial public offering. And then of course the float can change if the company does stock splits, a traditional split or a reverse split, or if the company does share buybacks, or if the company does secondary offerings, which will dilute the value of the stock. So in this case here, if we're going to say the filters, 20 million shares out, out, this one's barely there, out and out. Okay. So now what we've done is we've whittled down our list to generally speaking, it's going to be about 10 stocks. And what I'm going to focus on, my approach is that I'm going to focus on the stocks that have the highest number one percentage gain. So I'm going to focus my top list each day is sorted by leading percentage gainer. This is how it's sorted. And then from there, I'm going to make sure I only focus on the stocks that are priced between two and 20 that have a float of under 20 million shares, lowers better and have high relative volume. And then I check to see what the news is. So I check the news. The news isn't going to be on here. I'm going to check it separately. And when I do this, I'm going to be narrowed down each day, typically, based on the top percentage gainer, we're going to go back to the top of the scan. So we've got two stocks in the top of the scan that are reverse splits. They don't have high volume and they're not, they're not worth trading. So those don't fit into the strategy because the gap is 4,000 percent, but it's not because it's actually gapping up that much. It's because the stock conducted a reverse split. So the first true gapper is C-I-N-G right here C-I-N-G. This is the number one leading gapper that is a true gapper, not from a reverse split. Okay. So when I pull up this stock right here, let's go through and let me, let me actually jump over here. Jump into the slide deck for one second. So these are our five pillars. And I want to kind of walk you through the way these scanners are set up. So my scanners are searching for these stocks in real time, but as you'll see, there's a couple of different scans on here. So this scanner here is a list that's giving me basically what I would consider to be the top candidate at this very moment. However, by the time the stock's up 165%, naturally, I've kind of missed some of the move. So how do I find it when it's up 15%, 20%, it may not yet be the number one leading percentage gainer, but it's moving in the right direction. And the way I find that is with this scan right here. This scanner is kind of like radar for the stock market. It is searching the stock market in real time for stocks that meet these criteria. So it's actually starting through all of the data of stocks making new highs, new lows, moving up and down. As long as they meet these criteria right here, I'm going to get an alert. So I now have a radar that is alerting me in real time if a stock meets my criteria. So this morning, C-I-N-G hit my scanner when it was about $3 a share. So let's go way back here. It hits the scanner right here. As soon as it's up more than 10%, the stock hit my scanner, okay? So at that moment, it hits my scanner, my high-day momentum scanner. And now I pull up the stock and I begin going through my due diligence process to decide whether or not this is something worth trading. So I want to talk for a second about small caps versus large caps. And then I'm going to share with you the five steps of my day trading strategy. And the moment a stock hits my scanner to the process I go through. So basically what we're going to take is those first few minutes when I'm taking my first trade and I'm going to break those down kind of decision by decision and walk you through the process because it's a process that is repeatable that I follow every single day and that you can learn and implement in your own trading. As always, I want you to practice these strategies you're learning in a simulator to test them out, to test to see whether or not you have the aptitude and the discipline to follow the rules of the strategy that I'm going to share with you because I'm going to give you the roadmap. I'm going to share with you the strategy but you have to have the discipline to follow the rules. So back when I got started, I started with large caps and large caps were appealing to me at that time because, well, really, I didn't know better. I didn't know any other way to find stocks to trade and I just sort of assumed if you're going to be trading on the stock market, you should be buying these big companies that everyone knows about and everyone's heard of. And while there's some value in trading these, it's actually not where most retail traders are focusing. Now, small caps, generally speaking are stocks with a market cap of under $2 billion and large caps are stocks that market cap greater than $2 billion. So stocks priced under $20 are typically small cap stocks and the market cap calculation is the number of shares outstanding multiplied by the current share price. So usually you need either a lot of shares outstanding, like is the case with Ford. So Ford has 4 billion shares outstanding. So even though the price is only $10 a share, 4 billion shares times 10, 4 times 10, right? You've got a market cap way in excess of $2 billion, okay? But most stocks that are $8, $10 a share, let's say they only have 20 million shares available to trade. Two times 20, that's a $40 million market cap. That's a really small market cap. So that's considered a small cap stock. I want to talk about the pros and cons of large caps for a moment because occasionally I'll see people in the comments who will say, Ross, you know, I don't know about small caps or so volatile, I wonder if I'd be better off trading large caps. And there are some pros to trading large caps. The pros is that large caps are scalable to larger size. You can trade large caps with $30, $40 million. You could take massive positions moving in, moving out, maybe not necessarily day trading, but there are people that day trade in Vidia, Tesla, and some of these huge stocks with massive positions and you could do quite well. Now large caps are usually slower trending markets. You don't see a large cap go up 50% in 10 minutes, the way you do with a small cap. So comparatively, they're slower trending. They often have very good respect for the volume weighted average price. And the reason is because there's a lot of institutional traders who are told to accumulate a position on a large cap stock and they want to try to accumulate it at the best price. And so if they're a buyer, they're going to buy as the price comes down to volume weighted average price, VWAP. That's the equilibrium price of the stock over the course of the day. And so there's going to be a lot of buying support at VWAP, so it's well respected. For some people, large caps can be a higher beta proxy for trading the overall market. And what that means is that instead of trading the S&P 500 when the S&P 500 goes up, they might trade in video because in video will go up but with more volatility. So for every point the S&P goes up in video might go up, let's just say five points. So it amplifies the return of the S&P 500. So some people will watch the S&P 500 during periods where economic data is going to get released. But instead of trading the S&P 500, they'll just trade this higher beta, which means it's going to have a higher reaction proxy for the overall market, this large cap stock. So whether that's Google, it's Facebook, it's Apple, it's Amazon, it's Netflix, whatever you might want, it's basically trading as if it's the overall market. It's kind of an interesting strategy. Another popular reason people will trade large caps is because you can usually get leverage on them, which means you could trade on borrowed money. The brokers are comfortable offering leverage on large caps because generally their volatility is more manageable and it's not expected that they're going to drop 50% in one day and result in a lot of margin calls. And likewise, for the same reason, you can usually find shares available to short. It's rarely an issue to short a large cap. So for these reasons, large caps can be popular and appealing. However, there are some drawbacks. One of the things that I find really frustrating about large caps is erratic order flow, which is due to institutional trades. And what I mean by that is as you're watching the chart and you're watching the level two, you might be watching a technical setup for, let's say, the first candle to make a new high on a bull flag or an ascending wedge breakout and all of a sudden there's a flash of a huge sell order that goes through and it totally ruins the pattern. And it wasn't because someone was like, this pattern's broken and I'm going to short it. It's just because some institutional trader got an order from their boss and their boss to go and sell a block of 50,000 shares. And so they just sold it and they just dumped the shares and it breaks the pattern. And so you're all focused on this technical pattern and then someone comes along and breaks the pattern because they're just a random order. But when you have a stock that is so popular among pension funds, mutual funds, 401ks, long term investors, big investors, small investors, you're going to have these random orders that come through and just break the pattern. And if you're not expecting it, it could cause you to stop out of the trade, which then creates even more selling because now all these people are stopping out and then maybe it rips back up because people buy the dip. But that creates erratic order flow and erratic price action, which becomes really frustrating. You're going to get stopped out more frequently. There are also fewer opportunities to trade large caps that have really high relative volume because on any given day, if we're looking at the scan of the stocks with the highest relative volume, you're going to notice consistently, I'm going to pull up the top relative volume scanner here. So top relative volume scan, let's look at these stocks. These are the top relative volume stocks in the entire market right now. None of them are large cap stocks, not one of them. And this is just like the top 20, none of them are large caps. So if you're looking for big imbalances between supply and demand, resulting in high relative volume where you're more likely to see big percentage gains, you're not going to find them on large caps. Now it's not to say that you couldn't trade large caps and instead choose to trade options because you could, but then you're dealing with a whole other issue. The issue that now you've got options, algorithms fighting over expiration dates, expiration prices, and then you've got quadruple witching, which occurs. So as a result, you've got traders that are battling to keep the stock above or below certain prices because of strike prices. Additionally, these are higher price and you get lower percentage moves, which means you generally need a bigger account in order to trade them. Now going back to options, you could trade options, but then you've got the risk of time decay, IV crush, implied volatility crush, and the risk that they can expire worthless. If we're going to be honest, large caps are dominated by high frequency trading algorithms and it's a highly competitive market. And the reason it's highly competitive is because it's so liquid. And so that incentivizes institutional traders and their trading desks to create high frequency trading algorithms to be the market maker, to be constantly buying and selling shares all day long. It's a game of arbitrage and they hire some of the most sophisticated PhDs from MIT to develop these algorithms to print money. So you're trying to compete and literally in a lot of ways, trade against the machine. So what I've learned is that the best traders here that are trading large caps, the ones who are making the most money, they're not retail traders. They're not like you and I. They're Warren Buffett, they're Bill Ackman, they're hedge fund owners, they're billionaires. Those are the people who are making a lot of money trading large caps. And then the other people that make money trading large caps are the people not trading them but who buy them and hold them. So the people, I suppose, that really make the most money trading them are high frequency trading algorithms and market makers. It's not retail traders. So if we look around, we're saying where are the millionaire traders and what are they trading? They're not getting chopped up by the high frequency trading algorithms of large caps. Most millionaire traders that I've met are not trading large caps. That's not where they made their money. Now some millionaire traders make their money trading small caps and then begin to venture into the large cap market once they have the account size to afford it and they can tolerate the swings and that erratic behavior. But that's when they're getting into not really day trading but holding for longer periods of time. So let's go back to small caps. What are the pros and cons of small caps? Small caps are less correlated to market returns. The S&P 500 can be dropping and a small cap stock still goes up 100% because it has news. They are high volatility which some people would say is a drawback but I think it's a plus because it means that you can get a bigger percentage return with shorter hold times. You get large percentage returns in small caps. There's no question about it. We look at the biggest percentage gainers today. Once again, these are all small caps. Now you do have, this is a, this is a mid cap stock. You've got $31 million, $31 a share and you've got a 100 million share float, $126 million share float. So this one's getting a little bit on the bigger side. I will, I will certainly admit that. That one's getting bigger but for the most part, we're going to find that this gap scan, this gainer scan is dominated by small cap stocks with a few exceptions here and there. Small cap stocks. These are the ones that are making the big percentage moves each day. So that means they're going to be more popular with small accounts. They're fast moving markets. Now fast moving means you've got to make decisions quickly and I'll say that that can also be a drawback for some people. It's a, it's a bonus but it can also be a drawback. Not everyone's able to have the aptitude to make quick decisions and to trade quickly. But the traders who I've seen who have been the most successful are doing it trading small cap stocks. So they're very popular among retail traders as well. And this is where I see a history of millionaire retail traders. Not millionaire stock market investors but millionaire retail traders. Now if you want to look at millionaire traders, you may also find them in other areas of the market. Of course people that bought cryptocurrency and held it for years and years and years. But those aren't day traders. Those are people who bought and held an asset that went, really an asset bubble that went up absolutely crazy. So that's different. And one of the things that's really nice about small caps is they are frequent opportunities nearly every day. I mean, if we look at my, my calendar, you'll see that it's very rare that I don't find an opportunity to trade pretty much every single day. I'll put my calendar here so you can look at it. So this is just this year and you see it's like every single day I'm finding stocks a trade. You go year over year 2023. There's a couple of days I'm out whether it's a sick day or maybe it's a no trade day because there was nothing to trade or it's a market holiday. But I'm not someone who takes long breaks with large cap traders. I often see they'll take four or five days without taking a trade. So they're just sitting showing up every day doing nothing. They've got nothing to trade because the opportunities are fewer and further between. So some of the cons with large with small caps are that you don't always have leverage. It's not always available. So you might pull up the level two and you realize, Oh, I need a hundred percent cash balance to trade it. So I can't use my leverage on it. You'll also notice that a lot of these are hard to borrow or they're expensive to borrow. There's no options chain, which is a plus and a minus because you don't have the high frequency trading algorithms fighting over expiration prices, strike prices. But you can't get those crazy returns that people got on GameStop faster or later volume at times. So at times you'll have a stock that goes up 100% to 100% 500% on really light volume, which is really a shame because it presents an opportunity, but it's hard to trade it. You can't take big size. So that's always disappointing when that happens. And then as I said, fast movie markets, this can be tough for some people because you get such a quick move, it can be you might feel that you're chasing it. So learning how to buy high and sell higher, how to capitalize on that volatility without falling victim to getting into high, knowing how to cut your losses is critical. Small caps have secondary offering risk. These are often lower price companies that decline in value over time. And we see unsavory practices of some of the underwriters, the institutions, the investment banks that are helping these companies raise capital by selling shares on the open market. Something that's kind of interesting is that large caps tend to have this kind of pattern. You know, gradual up and then panic stops out a lot of people and then it kind of rallies back up. This is over the course of days, months, weeks, right? So weeks and months. So years even, we just sort of go up and then we get these panic drops. Whereas small caps, a lot of small caps are doing the opposite. They're selling off over long periods and then we get a reverse split, we get some breaking news and they pop up 500%. Maybe over the course of two, three, four days. And then it kind of resumes this downtrend, goes out of popularity. And then again, reverse split news and squeezes up 500%. And these are the areas where I get really interested because these are stocks in these positions that are often at all time lows, they're really beaten up and you're buying it with a news catalyst right off the all time low. Now granted, you may be getting in when it's up 20%, 30% on the day, but it's 30% off the all time low. It feels like relatively speaking, I am getting in this at a pretty low price. And some of these end up putting in some impressive moves. So let's pull back our chart here on CING because you're going to notice this is one of these examples. This is a stock that's been beaten up for quite a while. So they did their initial public offering. We've got to go back a ways and the stock then sold off for a while. So if they do their IPO, it sells off down here. It drops down, but then look at this bounce. That bounces up big time, sells off again, comes back up again, sells off again, bounces back up again, sells off, bounces up again, sells off a big bounce right here. And then it sells off again. And so we keep seeing this trend of sell off and then big bounce, sell off and big bounce. So these big bounces off the low, this is the one that bounced, that was a 600% bounce right there. Look at this one, that's a huge bounce. So these are the times where these can be very interesting, catching these bounces off the lows. So yes, these are stocks that are not good investment grade stocks that you want to buy and hold for a long time. But these are stocks that when they bounce, can bounce up 200, 300, 400% in a single day when they have good news. And people who are shorting can very quickly get stopped out. And that can be where things get exciting. So now let's jump back here into our slide deck. All right. So, so the pros and cons of small caps have kind of led me to feel that my niche is in the small cap market. Retail traders dominate the small cap market. When I look at the most successful retail traders, people who are day trading every single day, they're trading small caps. Now some of them are trading long, some of them are trading short, some of them may be holding overnight, but most of them are trading small caps, some trade penny stocks as well. So you've got to find your niche and finding your niche means practicing, right? So those of you who haven't already downloaded it, pinned to the top of the comments and linked in the description is my small account strategy PDF. That's the criteria and the process that I use every single day for finding the strongest stocks to trade. I have that PDF, let's see, I've got this right here. It's a six page PDF that you guys can download, but once you go through that, you're going to start to get a sense of the type of stocks I'm trading every single day. When you watch more of my episodes here, and we're going to jump into the technical analysis section of my strategy, you're going to start to get a sense of where I'm getting in and where I'm getting out. You're going to want to practice this strategy and test yourself to see if you can find success with it, because this is where we're seeing volatility. This is where I'm seeing opportunity every single day. And although you could, you know, you may find that for you, you do better on the stocks between $2 or between $0.20 and $2. You may find that those cheaper ones work better for you, and that's totally fine. For me, I find that $2.20 is the best, and between $5 and $10 is kind of the sweet spot. So let's talk about my day trading strategy, and I'm going to use CING as the case study, and now we're going to get into the weeds of this actual trade that I took. So CING, obviously, it's the number one leading gainer. So step one is to find the stock that's moving, CING up 161%, but when I first found it, I found it off my high-of-day momentum scanner. So it hits my high-day momentum scanner, so I'll pull up that scan real quick. So it hits this scanner right here, CING. It was right at, it was the second the news came out, so it was at 7.45 AM. It hits that scanner as the stock is popping up 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, right? It's hitting my scanner, it's alerting me. So then I'm like, what's the news? So I check my news window right here, and it's already populated the headline that 7.45, they were issued a European patent for lead asset for the treatment of ADHD. And I'm thinking, all right, ADHD is very common, you know, millions and millions of people have it. This isn't a super obscure illness that is not going to be popular. If they've got a patent here for something that big, that could be significant. Now having said that, I know from experience that patent trademarks are not always huge headlines. So initially I was a little skeptical, but I said, let's proceed with technical analysis. And by the way, when the stock hit my scanner, I check the following price, percentage change, float, relative volume. And those were all check, check, check, check. So very quickly I was able to do my due diligence on that, and that led me to my next step of pulling up the chart. When I pull up the chart, I see right here it's a recent reverse split. You see that S? So what that tells me is that this stock recently did a reverse split. I could pull up the filings, I don't have to because I have all the data in my scanners, but I'll see that as of August 13th, the float was 950,000 shares. So it's a very low float stock, which is great. And what we know is that that's the result of them just doing this reverse split. So if we check on our charts here, we could see the ratio of the split. So the ratio of the split, we could also see it if we go into the last earning statement. So back here, they had a float of 6 million shares. So it would have been, well, approximately 10 to 1, that would put it at 600,000 shares. Let's just check to see what it is. So it's 12 to 1. So it's a 12 to 1 reverse split. So they do a 12 to 1 reverse split, and that had the effect of reducing the float. So now the float is really small. What is float? It's the number of shares available to trade. It's also supply in the supply demand equation. So the supply level is very low. Okay, now the stock hits my scanner and it starts squeezing up. I pull up the chart, I check the daily chart, and what I see on the daily is we've got a lot of room to the 200 moving average. It's nowhere nearby. So I'm like, great, we're not running into resistance. I see it's a sold off pattern. I love these patterns for the bounce off the low. This is one of my favorite. It's definitely in contrast to a stock that's more extended. Stocks are more extended. ASTS, this one for instance, large cap, not a large cap. It's a higher price stock that put in a nice move today, no doubt, but I usually find that when these stocks get more expensive, they get a bit harder to trade, especially as they grind higher. The sweet spot usually is down in this area for me. And we got some nice trades on this one when it was down. Actually, no, we didn't. This was, I'm thinking of a different one. Anyway, so, so, so then let's go back here. So I pull up the one minute chart, I pull up the 10 second chart, the one minute chart, and as I pull it up, I'm looking for a possible entry. And I actually went red on the stock on my first trade. So let's go back to C-I-N-G. So C-I-N-G, all right, so I'm going to jump, zoom in here. Okay, so I'm going to pull up my charts here, look at my orders. So C-I-N-G, it was at 740, I took my first trade at about 749. So the stock pops up here initially, but not a lot of volume. But then I guess some traders saw it, it starts to move up a little higher, and people see, oh, the stock is moving up, it closed yesterday to $1.80, so now it's at $2.20, it's at $2.40, it's at $2.60, it's at $2.80. So now, all of a sudden, we're gapping up 40% on very late volume. It hits a high of three, it pulls back, it comes back up here to a high of $3.40. It dips down, and my first trade on it was buying, let's see, I got in right here for the breakthrough this level. We pop up, we dip down just for a fraction of a second, and I got in at $3.20. It pops up here to a high of $3.43, I take my profit on my first trade, and I made about like $300, it was a small winner. Now for those of you who don't know, I have a strategy that is very defensive. I don't want to be too aggressive when it's not the right time, so I start each day with a cap generally of 5,000 shares until I'm up more than $1,000. Now in the market's hot and I'm doing really well, my starter will be a little bit bigger, so it can fluctuate a little bit, but on CING, I took 5,000 shares, average was about $3.21. So it ends up popping up here to $3.40, and I take some profit on it, so it goes up, let's see, to $3.30, $3.35, I take profit at $3.32. And so I guess I must have been up about $400 on that trade. And then it pulls back, and I add back right about here. It squeezes up to a high of $3.69, and I'm like, fantastic. This is called a micro pullback. So you get this first move right here, which is sort of jumping on the momentum. It pulls back, and then I'm getting in right here. It pushes higher, but I didn't take any profit. I was looking for a bigger move. It comes down, and I stopped out right here. So I took a loss on this, and I was now read about $300 on the stock. The thing that was a shame was that I really thought it was going to push higher. And so I had added 7,500 shares on that next trade, and by the way, at that point, I was already green on the day because of my first trade on VSME. So I'd already taken a trade on VSME and AISP, so I was already up $2,000. So I was allowed to take bigger share size based on my cushion on the day. I just was a little more cautious on the first trade, sized up on the second, and then went red. It drops down, and then right here, as it curls back up, I got back in. I got back in at $3.40, and it rips up here to $3.80, that's $0.40 a share. And I took that trade right there, let's see, I bought 7,500 shares. So now I'm back in with 7,500 shares at $3.45. It squeezes up to $3.80, I'm up $1,500. It pulls back, I buy the dip right down here, it squeezes back up to $3.80, I take profit, we hit a high of $3.91, now I'm up $1,500, $1,800, $1,500 on the stock, I'm now crossing $5,000 green on the day. I continue trading it as it squeezes higher. So it pushes higher, and I end up adding at $3.88 and $3.90 for the break of $4. We tap for, we pull back, it then comes up for a second attempt, squeezes through, goes up to $4.20, boom, fantastic. Pushes up to $4.40, dips down, so now it's a little choppy. It dips down again, comes down, and this is where I drew this line. I connected these two dots right here and right here. I bought this dip down here, it squeezes up to $5.55.60, and right in this area, I am just actively trading. I'm buying the dips, I'm selling it on the breakouts, buying dips, selling it a breakout, buying the dip off support, selling it on the breakout. It comes up to $5, just about $5, it then pulls back right here, resistance at that line, and now we're stair stepping down. So at this point, I thought, well, maybe that's it, maybe this is all it's going to give us. And then all of a sudden, this thing rips back up here to $4.80, and I bought that dip right there for the break of $5, and it squeezes up to $5.40. We got to hide about $5.60, and then I sold and I was done. So once it started to pull back here, as soon as it broke this level, I was like, nope, not going to trade it anymore. Now if I pull up the one minute chart, what you're going to notice about the technical analysis on the stock is that we traded really well when we were on the front side of the move. And once we had our first MACD crossover, it got choppy. The MACD crossover was right here. So that was where it got choppy, clean, clean, pulled back, and then we pushed a little higher. So this for me was $10,000, got me to $10,000 green on the day, $10,000 of profit, and this only added an extra two grand. Even though it was a big move, even on high volume, MACD had crossed over, it did curl back up, but I wasn't totally confident. I didn't want to overstay my welcome. And so I ended up saying, I'm just going to trade a little more conservatively, locked up a little more profit. And then when we came back down and broke this level a second time, I was like, nope, this is no good. Now what ended up happening later in the afternoon was it squeezed up again. So false breakout, false breakout, false breakout, and then rip, squeezes out short sellers, but then comes back down. So kind of choppy price action. And what you're generally going to learn is that with these momentum stocks, it's better, in my opinion, to be early, and it's better to trade aggressively at the beginning of the move and not overstay your welcome. That's something that takes time to learn. A lot of trainers overstay their welcome, overtrade, and chronically give back profit. There's a great book here, Thinking in Bets by Annie Duke, and another one right here, this is the power of knowing when to walk away. Walk away before you experience a close call. So one of the things that I have all of our members doing, especially those, of course, who are going through my, they're warrior pro members that are going through day trading strategies and scaling. I put them on a trading plan where after they've practiced in the simulator quite a bit, they focus on taking just one really good trade a day and building a track record of consistency. You do that 10 days first. If you have, if you're green after those 10 days, net profitable, you do another 10 days with bigger size, another 10 days with bigger size. And this is the way you start to acclimate yourself and condition yourself to the emotions that come with trading, gains and losses, and begin to dip your toe in the water of trading with real money. You've got to go slowly because one of the biggest challenges with trading is the emotions up here, trading psychology. I can teach you all of the skill, I can teach you the strategy, but at the end of the day, success comes down to an ability to have the discipline to follow the rules. When I look at all the traders I've known who have failed, failure usually comes down to one of two things. The first is they lack a strategy and I've known a lot of traders who they'll trade small caps for a little while and then they're like, it moves too fast. I keep holding and getting caught. I'm not quick enough. I'm going to go trade large caps and I'm asking them, how many large cap traders do you know who have earned a million dollar badge? You look at warrior trading at every single one of our million dollar badge holders. The million dollar badge holders that we have right now that are active in the community, those are all small cap traders. You look around at other retail traders like you and I who are making good money. What are they trading? Most of them are trading small caps. So this is the area to focus. If you're not good at them yet, keep practicing. There are viable strategies for trading small caps. So the first is they don't have a strategy or they abandon strategies quickly and jump from small caps to large caps and they give up on large caps. Then they go to forex. Then they give up on forex. Then they go to futures. They give up on futures. You're trading large caps. That's hard. Futures and forex are even harder. You're trading against the algorithm. You're trading against algorithms. They're taking into account weather patterns. I mean, if you're a retail trader, that is not where you're going to find your edge. Again, this is my humble opinion, but I just, I really believe it. So think about where people are finding success. Number one, adopt a strategy that other people are trading right now with success. Number two, the second leading cause of failures, they have the strategy. They don't have the discipline to follow the rules. You can bring a horse to water. You can't force him to drink. I can give you the road map. I can share with you the strategy, but I can't force you to have the discipline to follow the rules. That's what you have to bring to the table. Now, if you're ready to bring that to the table, I would encourage you to do a two week trial of warrior trading, trade with me side by side for the next two weeks. You'll get a sense of what's like to be a member of the community. You'll learn about step four, how I execute my trades, how I route my trades to the market. You'll understand my analytics, my metrics, how I analyze my strengths, my weaknesses, how I make tweaks based on my performance. You've got a real sense of what it's like to be part of the warrior trading community, the warrior pro community. So it's two week trial, we call it the warrior pro preview, because it's a preview of what's like to be a warrior pro member. During your trial, you will get access to my platform right here, so you'll get access to real time data, stock scanners, chat room, broadcast, my stream, you'll get access to the charts, the newsfeed, and it is real time data. So it's a two week trial for 20 bucks. You're helping pay your market data costs. And if I'm going to be honest, we're actually going to lose some money on it. It costs us more in market data, especially if you straddle two months, than you're paying us. However, we're happy to give you a trial because we want to give you a chance to check out the software, and I believe so strongly in it that I know that many of you are going to stick with it. You're going to say, you know what? This is going to be my home. And I hope that some of you become long term members of warrior trading and who knows, maybe you'll become one of our next badge holders. Now I want to remind you guys, as always, if you didn't already know this, trading is risky. So please manage your risk, take it slow and practice this simulator before you put real money on the line and I'll remind you that my results are not typical. There's no guarantee you'll find success. So please take it slow. Now, if you enjoyed this episode, I hope you hit that thumbs up. I hope you subscribe the channel for more episodes about day trading strategy just like this and I'll see you for the next upload real soon.