# 55. I Day Traded This ONE Strategy For 21 days...Here Are The Results
# id=RLGDwe2m70E (whisper base.en)

In today's episode, I'm going to do a deep dive into how I was able to make $232,789 in-day trading profits just last month. That's right, 21 days over $200,000 in profit. This is the anatomy of a six-figure month. But rather than spend the entire episode bragging about how much money I've made, which is going to serve you absolutely no good, I would rather break down for you the steps that I had to take to get to the point of being able to have a six-figure month. Because that is actionable information that you can actually do something with today. Now, for those who haven't tuned into one of these episodes before, my name is Ross Cameron. I'm a full-time day trader. I've been doing this for more than a decade. In fact, I uploaded my first YouTube videos right here in 2013, so 11 years of uploading content on YouTube. And I want you to know that my results as a trader are not typical. I have done exceptionally well. In fact, right now I am breaking over $13 million in gross profit in my career. So don't think that by watching an episode like this, you're going to have a six-figure month next month because that's not realistic. But there are steps that you can take right now to improve your trading and become more consistent if you are willing to have the dedication, discipline, and drive to actually follow the rules. So I'm going to lay out the roadmap for you. It's your job to follow the directions and to follow the instructions of the plan. All right. So let's go ahead and jump into this episode. We're going to do a full-length class here and I'm going to jump this up to full screen so you can see what we've got to work with. We're going to start with the first slide, which is my month in review. And you can see right there $232,789.97. This was a no red July, not one red day. I had a couple of no trade days, but I had no red days, which is really phenomenal. And in fact, this sets a record for me being the best month of the year. It's my second six-figure month for this year and it's my best month of the year. It's also the biggest green month I've had in almost two and a half years. The market has really started to heat up and I'm good at stepping on the pedal and getting aggressive when it's hot, what I'm not good at is easing off the throttle when it starts to get cold. And one of the things that I'm known for is I trade big, I'll make a lot of money, and then I'll have a huge red day. So one of the things that I'm still working on improving in my own trading, even after doing this for so many years, is trying to get better at easing off the throttle when it starts to cool down. So we'll talk about that a little bit more in today's episode, but that's more in the area of refining a strategy that's working very well in total. I think for a lot of you, we've got to get our head around the steps that you have to take to even get to the point first of having a green month, let alone a six-figure month. So these are the seven steps that I had to take to get to the point of being able to have my first six-figure month. Step one, the foundation, step two, the first green month, step three, handling loss, step four, sizing up, step five, full size, step six, analyzing progress, and step seven, setting new goals. I'm going to break down each one of these steps, and we're going to start a course with step one, step one of learning how to trade. You're never going to have a green month, let alone a six-figure month, if you don't have a solid foundation. So when I'm talking about a solid foundation to be a trader, the things I'm thinking about are terminology that you understand all of the terms around trading, right? So if I pull up just this window, you understand what P&L means. You understand realize and unrealized. You understand cost basis and average cost. You know what a symbol is. You understand if you look at a trading platform with the bid and the Asgar. You know what hotkeys are. You know what NASDAQ, Nicie, and Edge and Bats are. These are the types of basic terms that you become familiar with, these you start trading, and that you'll definitely need to understand before you get to the point of trading with real money. One of the things that I learned from my own experience is that learning the language of the financial market feels like learning another actual spoken language, like learning Spanish or French or Italian or whatever. I'm not good at speaking other languages. I took French in school and my wife speaks Italian, so I try to, but I'm not good at it. But what I understand is that when you immerse yourself in an environment where everyone else is speaking a language, it's a lot easier to learn. And I've never been able to really have that opportunity, which is probably why it's been so hard for me. But when it comes to trading, how do you immerse yourself in like the financial language? Well, I think one way is by watching videos like this, because you're going to start to pick up on the terms that I use just in describing my traits. So the more you immerse yourself in trading communities, like the one that we have at Warrior Trading or just by watching videos like this, the more these sort of general concepts will start to filter in and just become like a second nature. You'll start to recognize and understand what they all mean. So step one, and I guess the first item is understanding the terminology. And I'm not going to spend this episode going over all of the basic terms. I have other episodes where I will break down that type of stuff in more detail, but just here to keep it high level. First is terminology. The second is understanding the basic concepts of market dynamics. I think that this is an important one because a lot of people, especially beginner traders, don't really understand exactly how the stock market works. They know of a stock market and you can buy shares of a stock, but concepts like shares outstanding, initial public offering, float, secondary offerings, these are totally foreign, but important to understand if you're going to be actively trading stocks. So understanding the basic dynamics of supply and demand, why stocks go up, why they go down, that's important. It's just sort of a building block. And then, of course, we get into the more nuanced detail of stock selection. How do you choose the right stocks to trade every single day? Technical analysis. How do you know where to buy and where to sell? Fundamental analysis. How do you read the news? Then of course, you need to understand how to use trading software, right? I pull up trading software like this and you need to be able to understand how it all works. What are all these numbers? What do they mean? What do these buttons do? You don't want to press the wrong buttons, you can get yourself into trouble. So, you know, it's understanding how this software works. And actually, some people have an aptitude for learning new things like software, computer stuff, or just things in general, and for other people, it's harder. So wherever you are on that spectrum, these are just some of the basic concepts that you'll need to understand to get yourself ready for day one of trading, certainly in a simulator. Then we've got level two and tape reading, adopting a proven strategy, which we'll talk about in a bit more in a second. Trading psychology, understanding that success and trading may be as much as 50% emotion. You certainly have the general concepts that we're talking about here, which are critical. You can't be a successful trader without understanding these things. But you can understand all those things and still not be successful. And it's because that one missing piece is up here. It's the psychology. And that is a huge struggle for a lot of traders. And even for traders like myself, who've been doing this for a long time, we still struggle at times with our own emotions. Trading is difficult. And this is one of the things that we struggle with. And then of course, part of the foundation is practicing in a simulator. So I want to talk about the outline of a trading plan, creating a trading plan for your strategy, because this really here is the roadmap for your career as a trader. Now, if I give you a roadmap and I say, this is what you should be doing or this is what I'm doing. And I encourage you to do it in a simulator course, a safe environment. The roadmap has rules. It has very specific instructions, the type of stocks that I trade. These are the types of places I get in. These are types of places I get out. If you have a trading plan that you create for yourself, whether it's a combination of adopting one that's proven by someone else or writing one on your own, you can't deviate from the plan. And one of the biggest challenges is that the reason people deviate from the plan is because of emotions. And so what I have found is that when you create a trading plan, that is a process. You follow the same process every single time and the emotion, there's just so much less emotion. I'll give you an example. So each late winter spring, I like to tap the maple trees around my property and I take out the sap and then boil it down into sugar to make maple syrup. And there's a process for doing that. It's just a very simple process. There's the equipment you need. There's some basic skills you need. You need to follow a very clear path. And it's you just do the same thing every single year. Now what's interesting is that there will be some variations in the outcome, the final product, and some variations in how long it takes to get to the final product. But rather than getting emotional and frustrated that, ah, this one's taking longer. This one's not as good. I don't really get emotional because these are things that are kind of outside my control. I follow the process. I can't help it if, you know, it's colder outside and so it's taking longer to boil, right? I can't help it if the market's cold and my strategy is not performing as well. There's no reason for me to get emotional about something that's outside of my control. If I follow the process, then I can feel like I've done a good job. So the more you can systemize your trading, the better. And it's not going to be the point of automating it and having a, you know, algorithm trade it for you because one of the areas that we have an edge is that we use our analytical mind to be able to make the decisions of when to scale up, when to scale back. And that's something that so far has not been able to be beat by these, um, these high frequency trading algorithms, at least at the scale that we're trading. When it comes to trading, you will be tested. So this is a job that requires a high degree of patience, dedication, determination, discipline and drive. So I want to share with you my strategy. This is a starting point. If you want to use this as a starting point for yourself, by all means, I'm happy for you to do that. I want to share this with you because when I think about getting to the point of having that first six figure month, there's no way I would have had that. If I didn't have a strategy that I was working with, I wouldn't even have my first green month if I didn't have a real strategy. So what I want you guys to do is to take my strategy and practice trading it in a stimulator. Don't trade it real money until you first tested a simulator. This strategy works for me. I trade it every single day and I know countless other people that are trading it as well, all of the members of the warrior trading community, but I want you to test it out for yourself. So I'm going to put a link. It'll be pinned to the top of the comments and link in the description where you can download my trading plan. This plan is going to dictate the type of stocks I trade, the time of day I trade and sort of all of the nuances of my strategy. It is a business plan, a trading plan, and that's a great starting point. So I encourage you to download that and you can print it out. Now my strategy, I like to sort of break down into these five sub sets steps. So step one are scanners. So for me, part of my strategy is every single day when I sit down, the process, this is me talking about also sort of what I did every single day last month that led to me having a six figure month. I followed this strategy every single day. So every single day, it doesn't matter whether you're trading in a simulator, you're on month one or you've been doing it for 15 years, if you follow the process, the process is the same every single day through all of that time. So I'm sitting down and I'm looking for the number one, number two, number three, leading percentage gainers in the market. That's where I usually find the most success. So the leading percentage gainers right here, the top three, each of these are up over 50% on the day. Now in order to get to the point of understanding these scanners, there are some skills required. You need to understand how to use the scanners, which means you need to understand some of the terminology here. You've got to understand, of course, what float is, you've got to understand the volume, you've got to understand relative volume, gaps, short interest, the short interest ratio. So for me, I'm able to understand all of these technical components here to help me figure out which of all of these stocks most closely matches my criteria for being the type of stock that has the potential to make a big move. That criteria is also broken down in the trading plan that you guys can download. And it's also important to understand the type of stocks to avoid because if I see a stock on my scanner here and I'm like, oh, I know that this one's no good and I know this one's no good. Why? They both have a float of over 100 million shares. So I know right away that this one, even though it's a big gap or probably not worth trading and neither is this one, right? Now I might say this one is a little risky and this one's a little risky too, which could on this particular day make this one actually the best one, even though it's the fourth leading gap or 600,000 share float with 2.6 million shares of volume. That's a nice imbalance between supply and demand. So the more you understand these concepts, of course, the better off you'll be. Now I have an episode right here, by the way, that breaks down stock selection. So you guys could check this out later if you want to how to pick the best stocks for day trading with zero experience. Step two is analyzing the news. So each day during the last month, of course, I would sit down. I would check the leading gainers and then I would check to see what's the news catalyst. What's the reason that it's moving higher? So the skills required to understand news, you've got to be able to understand the different types of news headlines that come out. You've got earnings, you've got FDA approvals, you've got clinical trials, you've got new contracts, you've got sometimes collaboration or acquisitions with bigger companies. And something that's really important is the ability to separate the logic of the news from the price action. Because sometimes you'll see a headline and you're like, oh my gosh, that's a great headline. This company's really got something going on. But the price action's terrible. So while the news might sound good, if the price action's bad, the market's responding negatively to the news. So the news isn't as good as it sounds to you. So we focus on the price action, but it is still important to understand the different types of news headlines. Number three, we've got to have an ability to understand fundamental analysis to a certain extent. And that means being able to read SEC filings. You've got your 10 queue filings, you've got four and four filings, their team G filings. You've got to be able to look at S threes and understand whether or not F one of three S one S three to see whether or not a company has a risk of secondary offerings because these offerings have the likelihood of diluting the value of the company and it usually drops. There's another episode there that you could check out if you want to learn more about that. Step three is technical analysis. So this is where we get into reading candlestick shapes, candlestick patterns, understanding the technical indicators, knowing how to visualize support and resistance. And this is where we actually learn our buy and sell signals. Again, this is a breakaway episode here on that same topic, how to read candlestick charts. Once I've read the candlestick charts, I've done my technical analysis. It's time to take the trade. And this is where you've got to know how to use your trading software. You've got to understand the different order types, limits, stop, market, time and force, order routing, level two, tape reading, hotkeys. This is all one of the, you know, these are part of the requirements to be able to master this strategy and another breakaway episode here on this topic. And then step five is your analytics, being able to look at all of your trading data. And this is 26,000 trades right here to $12.8 million of profit when I grab this screenshot. And you got to be able to draw conclusions based on the data you're seeing. So an ability to read metrics requires you to be able to highlight and understand your weaknesses and highlight your strengths and analyze where the majority of the profit is coming from. Because this is where you take your trading to the next level. Now I am going to put a link, by the way, next to the link to download my trading plan for a two-week trial at Warrior Trading. Because if you want to learn all of those different aspects about my strategy that I just shared with you, you'll learn a lot about those during the two-week trial. And you'll be able to do what's called the pro preview. It's a two-week trial of being a Warrior pro member. And the Warrior pro course was ranked, rated the best comprehensive day trading course by Investopedia. So if you haven't already checked that out, you should. Okay. Step one is understanding the fundamentals. And I think part of step one is having a strategy. So you need to have a strategy. You need to have your trading plan. This is the plan that you're going to follow every single day while you're trading. It's the process. That's what's going to get you ready for day one of trading in a simulator. So that's step one. Step two. Now it's having your first green month. Your first green month of trading is a big deal. It's super exciting. But you always have to ask, was it beginner's luck? I hope it wasn't. I hope it was because I have a strategy and this set of skills that I've learned. It's not just beginner's luck, but you have to have an honest assessment. And so the way you find out whether or not it was beginner's luck is by asking if you followed a process that you can replicate. Because if you followed a process every single day, like the five steps I just shared with you with my strategy of stock selection, checking the news, doing your technical analysis, entering your trade, and then analyzing your metrics, then that's something you can replicate for weeks, months, years into the future, right? That comes from having a trading plan that you're following. So the first green month isn't going to come on your first month of trading. I mean, I suppose it could, but it's not likely to. One of the things that I always challenge our members to do at Warrior Trading is to, well, once you learn the strategy that I'm trading, I encourage people just to trade it a ton in a simulator. If you want to take a hundred trades a day, take a hundred trades a day because the more you trade, the more data you'll produce to get an understanding of what's my accuracy, what's my profit to loss ratio, you know, what are the price ranges where I am making the most money or where the areas where I'm struggling. So you've got to create a lot of your own data to get that information. And the only way to do that safely is to trade this new strategy that you're learning in the simulator. So once you've done a ton of trading in a simulator, you may possibly have a green month during that first, you know, 90 days of trading in the simulator, but it's also possible that you'll have red months. But once you get to the point where you're like, okay, I feel like I know what I'm doing. If I'm really trying to make a point of being green, I know how to do it. I feel like I've got it. That's when you test yourself and you try to get your first green month. And the way I encourage people to do it is to take 10 days and to focus on trading one trade a day for 10 days. And the reason I do this is because I want to see if you whittle it down to just focusing on one really good trade, can you maintain at least 60% accuracy, meaning six out of those 10 days are green and can you have a positive profit to loss ratio where your average winners are bigger than your average losers. If you can do that in those first 10 days, you will be green and that is a big milestone. You then do that for the first 10 days, you do it in a simulator. And then for the next 10 days, you do it with real money, but super small share size. It's not about making money during your first 10 days of trading with real money. It's about proving that you can maintain the track record that you just had in the simulator. That's that smooth transition from sim to real money that you want. So you do another 10 days with real money. And the goal is that your metrics are basically the same. What you did in the simulator now replicates into real money. So if you're doing the simulator with 100 shares, you're trading real money, maybe with 10 shares. So you change the decimal point, your gains are going to be smaller. And of course, your losses will be smaller too, which is what we're all about. We're about protecting downside risk. So starting with really small size protects you. It's about keeping you safe. And I know that's not fun. That's not what a lot of people want to hear. You want to just have your six-figure month next month. But I want to help you build a solid foundation that you can grow on. And it really is important that you do it the right way. So this is part of the roadmap that I'm going to lay out for you. If you choose not to follow the directions, that's on you. But this is how I'm going to present it. It's what I think it really is the right way to learn. So you do your 10 days in the sim, then you do 10 days with real money. And if you lock that up, that's 20 days, that's one month of trading. One month, one trade a day. So let's look at some of these metrics. So I'll ask our students at Warrior Trading to send in a calendar showing me how they did. So this was the one month challenge here, one trade a day. And you can see for the most part, they did a really good job. There's a couple days where they took two trades, a couple days where they went a little higher. And everyone, it's up to you how you're going to discipline yourself and how you're going to maintain one trade a day. But they did a great job. They only had two red days. So this is a great first month. It all starts with building a track record because to get to the point of having a six-figure month, being up $232,000 to take positions at times of 25,000 shares, 30,000 shares, that takes a lot of confidence. How do you get that confidence? It doesn't come out in just, you know, blue sky. That confidence comes from having a lot of experience and from having a track record. So as a beginner, how do you start from zero and create a track record? You create a track record in a simulator because if you lose money a simulator, you don't get really emotional about it. It's just like, whatever. But if you make money in a simulator, you actually can feel really, you can have an emotional response of confidence. And that's a really good place to be when you're transitioning to real money, right? So you build that track record in the simulator, you prove you can follow the one trade a day plan for the first 10 days, then the next 10 days, first sim, then real money, and have your first green month. This is when you're transitioning from real money to, sorry, from sim to real money, and always doing it by starting with really small size. So these are more P&Ls of students who did this one trade per day challenge. So this one was pretty solid. A couple of two days here, and they started sort of in the middle of the month, but still nonetheless, that's 11 green days in a row. This is another one that was a little more spread out. I'm not sure if this was based on schedule or what the issue was here. But anyway, so this was a little more spread out. And this is a beautiful month. I love seeing this. I don't care that these are relatively small green days. Okay, so it's a $500 day. It's a $43 day. What I love seeing is the consistency. I want you to imagine right now how confident you would feel if you looked back at your trading for the last 30 days and you saw that. If you saw just, you know, 25 green days in a row, you would feel good. It doesn't matter if they're $3 days or they're $30 days or they're $300 days or $3,000 days. The fact that you're that consistent feels good. And here is the blessing and the curse of trading. I'll say it again for those who haven't already heard it. The curse is that you can literally spend years struggling to make $3 a day. You're trying as hard as you can. You can't make $3 a day. You're not trying to get rich. You're not trying to do anything crazy. $3 a day. Why is this so hard? But once you're consistently making $3 a day, the only difference between 3 and 30 is increasing share size. The only difference between 30 and 300 is increasing share size. The only difference between 300 and 3000 is increasing share size. Now, the only difference between 3000 and 30,000 or 30,000 and 300,000 is increasing share size. But the sad truth of trading is that there is a limit to scalability where you'll have diminishing returns. You can't day trade with 5 million shares getting in and getting out. It's just there's not enough volume in the market. There's not enough shares to trade on most stocks to do that. So you're not going to make billions of dollars trading. But no doubt, there are people out there who make millions of dollars trading. There's people out there who make $100,000 a year trading. And those are those are goals that are more within reach for the traders who find success. And again, I don't want that to sound like I'm giving you any kind of guarantee that you'll find that because there is no guarantee. I wish there was, but there's not. The reality is, even if I give you the trading plan that works so well for me, it's not a guarantee it'll work for you because I can't force you to follow the rules. And I also don't know your personal aptitude, your personal risk tolerance. Ultimately, the strategy that you end up trading will be in many ways a reflection of your own personality. Something that I sometimes think about, this is a little bit of a tangent. But sometimes I think about, you know, for people who are aspiring and want to learn how to trade, and these are a couple of other of the monthly P&L's, people who are wanting to learn how to trade, I think about how to start. You know, how do you start when you're at the very beginning? And of course, I think one of the best ways to start is to learn from someone who is proven profitable. And so if you think about, well, who out there is very profitable in the stock market? Warren Buffett, right? Think of someone like Warren Buffett. He's very, very profitable in the stock market. So why was it that I didn't, when I was getting started, think about how could I be more like Warren Buffett? Well, maybe I should let you in on a little secret, which is that I did think about that a little bit. This is called The Intelligent Investor is written by Benjamin Graham. And he, it's a definition of value investing by far the best book on investing ever written. That's the quote from Warren Buffett on the top of this. And the thing with Benjamin Graham and Warren Buffett is that their strategy while, of course, it works extremely well for them. And I found was not something that would work for me. And I'll tell you why. When I was getting started, I didn't have a lot of money. So if you have a thousand dollars to start trading and you want to do Warren Buffett value investing, it's going to take you probably at best three years to double the money to two thousand dollars, right? I mean, unless you get lucky, but realistically, it's going to take years and years and years to grow that money. So the way they invest works great if you've got millions of dollars, hundreds of thousands, millions or billions of dollars that you want to invest. But for those of us with small amounts of money, it doesn't work. So I needed to find a strategy that more related to the type of trading I wanted to do. And unfortunately, when I was learning to trade, I couldn't find anyone that was trading like that. And so ultimately, I ended up spending years of trial and error until I developed the strategy that I trade today. You don't have to go through that. Now, it's also worth noting that my personality is that on the one hand, I am very motivated. I'm very hard worker, but I'm also a very anxious investor, a very anxious trader. So that might sound bizarre because I'm actually really afraid of risk. And the way I mitigate that is I hold positions for short periods of time. I get in and then I get out. I get in and I'm like, I better get out. I get in and then I get out. So my strategy from the very beginning was that I would buy a stock and I'd be nervous about holding it for a long time because something bad would happen. So I was like, where can I buy where I'm going to get immediate resolution? And I was like, well, if I buy a stock hoping it's going to have news, I could be holding it for days and days and days. If I buy a stock that has news right now and it's squeezing up 30, 40 percent right now, if I buy on a pullback, I could get in and get out within five minutes and I could be up 5 percent or 10 percent. And to me, being up 5 percent or 10 percent while it's less than being up 40 or 50 percent, if I could do that in like five minutes, that was better than being up 30 percent in like three days. That's just the way I thought about it because of my exposure risk. So my strategy is definitely a reflection of my personality of being a little bit risk off. And all of the day trading profit I make, I work so hard to make this profit day trading and then when I reinvest it in the market long term, I reinvest it very conservatively. I'm not going to put it all on Nvidia or Tesla. Now, sure I could, but that's not my risk profile. That's not my mentality. It's not my personality. So it's possible that your personality match is not the same as mine, but you still are appealed or find appeal in a momentum trading strategy and you're just going to trade a little differently. And that's totally okay. There are a lot of people that will be trading these top three leading percentage gainers each day and applying slight variations to the way I trade it. Some might get in and hold much longer. Others take huge positions, but they're in and out really quickly like I am. So you could, you could approach it from different ways, but you know, as always, this is the, the strategy that I take. So finding that person that you can learn from, I think is, is a big challenge for a lot of beginners. And I hope for you that you find that my strategy resonates with you and you want to learn it and you find value, of course, in episodes like this. Hey, if you do, it doesn't hurt to hit that thumbs up. So I hope you hit the thumbs up and subscribe the channel. Now, step three is handling loss, right? It's all fun and well when you're having these nice green months, right? You're having your eight, 10 green days, 15 green days in a row. But then invariably you'll have a loss recovering from the first loss is critical. If you don't recover from your first loss, then that's the end of your career. So you have to recover from the first loss and you have to prove that you can recover from loss. Once you've had that first recovery, I don't want to sound sappy, but it's like recovering from having your heart broken. You know, once you've had your heart broken once, it's like really hard. And then once it's been broken, you've recovered from that. Now it's like, okay, you know, I can survive. I can, I can do this. And it gives you more confidence to get back out there, right? Don't be afraid to love. So, so you, you would just with trading though, it's, it's a process of building emotional stamina and strength. You have to condition yourself to be able to experience that pain that comes with loss and get right back on the horse. That's part of being a trader. You've got to be incredibly resilient. Trading is a career where, you know, every six to eight weeks, you're going to have a day where you give back a week of profit. And that's just the way it is. There's nothing you can do about it. It's part of trading. Even the best investors have that happen. I saw Bill Ackman, a billionaire investor lose like 400 something million dollars on Netflix. I mean, it's, it doesn't matter how big you are. The losses can, they're, it can be relative, right? 400,000, 40,000, 4 billion, it's painful. Losing is painful. And you've got to be able to, to, to grow a pretty thick skin. And it's part of building emotional stamina and strength. So how do you build emotional stamina? How do you, you know, get good at losing? So the way to get good at losing is to lose a lot. The more you lose, the more you realize that wasn't so bad. It's kind of like, uh, you know, learning to ski. If you're really afraid of falling, you're going to be so timid. But in fact, if you don't fall, you're not pushing yourself. There's no such thing as a trader who doesn't lose. Traders have losses. That's part of the deal. So the better you get at just taking those losses and, you know, taking down the chin and bouncing right back, the better off you'll be. So in a simulator, it's very easy to just cut the loss and move on, right? You just press the sell button, you move on with real money. It's harder. And I understand that. So that's why when you first transition from sim to real money, it's important to start really small. So with 10, with 10 shares, if you lose $3 a share, there are three, three dollars a share, you'd be down 30 bucks. If you lose $3, $3. I mean, it's like, can you tolerate losing $3? If that means absolutely nothing to you, then maybe you're comfortable trading a little bit bigger. What's the dollar amount right now that you could take out of your wallet, you could light it on fire and lose, and you'd be like, whatever. Is it 20 bucks? Is it 200 bucks? Probably not. Probably not for most people. You'd be like, ah, that sucked. Maybe 50, maybe. Probably for a lot of people, it's going to be $20, $15, $10. And so that's the place to start. So you start with risking the amount of money that you can lose and it's no big deal. But you have to condition yourself to let that number get bigger and bigger and bigger. And so here's the process. You start month one, right? 10 days in the sim, then the next 10 days are in real money. And this is after you've already had several months of practicing in the sim and building your skill and getting good at getting in and out and everything else. But once you're ready to kind of go live, you have that sort of 10 day sim, 10 day real money. And with 10 days real money, you trade with small size. Whatever's sort of right at that spot for you where you're risking $20 per trade. So maybe you're doing maybe 500 shares and probably 400. Maybe 200 shares, 200 shares kind of max size. Depends on the price range stock you're trading, of course. But for stocks between like $2 and $6, maybe 200 shares. Okay, so you're taking 200 shares. That's your first 10 days. So then the next 10 days, you're taking 300 shares. The next 10 days, you're taking 400 shares. The next 10 days, you're taking 500 shares. And you keep kind of slowly pushing the edge of your comfort zone. You're taking a little bit more size, a little bit more size. This is the way you condition yourself to get to get comfortable with loss. So when we look at some of my red days here, you know, $8,900 red day, a $6,000 red day, you know, I can have red days like this and I have very little emotional response. I've gotten to a point where I can take a big red day and I can recover from it. So step four of the seven steps of getting to the point where you can have a six figure month is scaling up. So to scale up, you have to continue to trade at the edge of your comfort zone. If you let yourself get comfortable, you're going to stagnate in trading. You don't want to go stagnant. You want to keep growing. You want to keep getting better. So if you have a strategy, a proven process that you're following every single day of how you're finding stocks, the news, the technical analysis, your entries, your exits, everything else, you've got that dialed down and you're doing well with 100 shares. It behooves you to step up to the plate and go to 200 and then do that for 10 days and then go to 300, 400, 500. You've got to keep pushing the edge of your comfort zone. You get to 1,000 shares. You got to 1,500. You start maybe moving up in bigger increments. You go to 2,000. You go to 3,000. You go to 5,000. I know traders out there that trade with 50,000, 75,000 shares. 100,000 shares on lower price stocks. I've seen traders out there take 300,000 shares on lower price stocks, not on high price stocks, but on lower price stocks like penny stocks. So you keep pushing and pushing and pushing and pushing. Now, if you're trading with 100,000 shares and the stock drops 10 cents, you're down 10 grand. Goes up 10 cents, you're up 10 grand. So the numbers are getting bigger. Every penny the stock goes up or down is a thousand dollars. All right. So you're starting to talk about big money. You do a million shares. Every penny is 10,000 dollars. All right. So now it's like real. This is intense. You're not going to get to that point anytime soon. But the idea is that you continue to push the edge of your comfort zone. To me, it's like if you're not pushing yourself, then it either means that you're totally comfortable with where you're at or you're scared. And if you're scared, then you're holding yourself back. If you're comfortable with where you're at. You have like, I've ascended to this level and I'm happy here. I don't need to keep pushing it. That's okay. And that's kind of where I'm at, to be honest. I've ascended to a level where I'm like, I'm good with where I'm at. I don't feel like I can go a whole lot higher in my strategy than where I'm at. There are certain market conditions where I can like the last month. And then there's other market conditions where I'm kind of tapped out on share size, just based on the sort of liquidity of the market and things like that. So I've gotten to a point where I think I'm sort of at about the most that I can do, except when we have crazy markets. Like we had COVID and I had a year where I made $5 million. So if we have another year like that where the market's insane, then I could probably have another $5 million or more year in just one year, right? But outside of that, I think I'm kind of at that peak. And so of course, rather than spending a lot of my time trying to expand, expand, expand on that side, I'm spending a lot of my time sending the ladder back down and helping beginner traders at Warrior Trading and right here on YouTube, which I love doing. I mean, for me, and I'll just say this is, again, as a side note, sometimes people are like, I don't understand why you would spend time teaching. You've made all this money. And I think that what it's hard to appreciate for someone who's not a teacher is the feeling of people that actually want to listen to what you say, that actually value the things that you know, that I actually have learned things. I know something that a lot of people care about. And that, I guess, in another way is like a confidence booster. It's like, wow, these people really want to hear about my strategy. They want to hear me talk about trading. And it makes you feel good to share that knowledge with people and to see people appreciate it. So it gives purpose. And there's more to life than just making money and trading for 24 hours out of the day, whatever. It's just nice to be able to have something that has a little more purpose. So anyways, step number four is scaling up, increasing your share size first and then increasing your trade frequency second. So I'm at a point now where I'm taking 14 trades, 12 trades, 13 trades a day, some days more, some days less. So you don't do one trade a day for forever. You trade one trade a day and increase size. And then once you've increased to your target size, you start taking two trades a day, three trades a day, four trades a day. The problem with trading more each day is that when you increase the number of trades you're taking each day, you also start to run the risk of falling into the emotional trap, which is that you have one good trade and then you give back all that profit on the next trade. And now you're dealing with the emotion of sort of like, I had something and it's gone. So it's important to first build a track record with like really one trade a day of just like, wow, that's 10 days in a row of consistency. This is really solid. Okay, so now let's talk about step number five. Step five is full size. When you're at full size, you're not limiting the number of trades you're taking per day. You're not really limiting your share size. You're trading at your peak of comfort and you're trading each day until the opportunities end. So you're not holding yourself back. Now, I think as a beginner, it's important to have your training wheels on so to speak, but you're not going to win the Tour de France with training wheels on. You're not going to be swimming in the Olympics with, you know, your what do they call it? I don't know what they call those things, but you know what I'm saying, those little, you know, floaties. So they're important, critically important, if you don't know how to swim, right? You need your guardrails when you're getting started to keep you safe training wheels guardrails, having limits with trading. This keeps you safe. It prevents you from worst case scenario blowing up your account and becoming a statistic of another failed trader. We know nine out of 10 traders lose money. Why do they lose money? I would say the majority of them, it's because they don't have a strategy and the rest of them because they don't have the discipline to follow the rules of their strategy. Boom. All right. So hopefully you're positioning yourself where you're not going to become part of the majority. But again, it really comes down at this point since you have some on the knowledge of my strategy. It's going to come back down to discipline and emotional self control. So nonetheless, you get to a point where you want to take those guardrails off. So for me to have $130,000 a month or a $200,000 a month, there is no question that I have to take off the guardrails, right? I have to be able to be really aggressive. Within reason, there are still some overarching guardrails such as max loss that I have to respect, right? I'm going to have red days periodically. This is a six figure month, 131,000. I've got a red day here of $2,000. That's fine. Certainly better to stop there than to let it go to minus 20,000, right? When, you know, the market's not in your favor, it's better to step back. So there's still that general and that's not even a guardrail or a rule. That's just common sense, but sometimes it's better to think of it in rule form because a lot of beginner traders, you lose common sense when you get emotional. That's the problem. It's not common sense to punch a hole in the wall, but when you're angry and emotional, it might happen. So common sense, it's easy to lose that in the heat of the moment. So sometimes just having a rule that if I'm down more the next amount, I'm going to walk away. All right, so step five is going up to full size. And then step six is analyzing your progress and really trying to figure out, what am I doing well? What am I doing that's really working? Where am I struggling, right? And what are the action steps that I can get from this data? So we talked about this a little bit in step one when we were going over my strategy and the last part of my strategy is analyzing your metrics. So we're coming back to it here. And if we look at this right here, these are little reports from my trading, from just one particular month. And you can see here, okay, well, if you just said, where am I doing really well in performance by price? Clearly it's on stocks between two and 10. I'm doing okay above 10, but and I'm not doing very well below two. So if you were going to take an action step based on this data, I might say the time I'm spending focusing on stocks under two could be taking away from time I could be focusing on finding the next stock between two and 10, right? And you could even argue that trading anything over 20 could be taking away time from focusing on the area where I really make the most money because time is limited each day. Same thing with volume. The time I spend trading late volume stocks since I'm losing money, that time should be better spent looking for stocks of higher volume that also fit within this price range. So those are actionable steps that I could take based on my data. Now, what we are going to do in this episode in a few minutes is I'm actually going to pull up all of my trades from the month of just this last month, my $232,000 month. And we're going to analyze that data and see if we can come to some conclusions based on that. Now, that's going to give you kind of a benchmark of how my strategy is currently performing, what is working well, what's not working well. So I think it'll still be useful for you, even though it's my metrics, it's still of use because a lot of you are trading a similar strategy. Now, step number seven is setting new goals. I feel like for me, I'm the type of person that I always, I like having lists and I always set my next goal just like a little further out, little further out. I don't set a goal like five years out. That's not helpful for me at all. I set a goal like one month out, you know, two months out, right? Just like three weeks, just a little bit out. And that's something that I can reach, you know, within the next couple of weeks. Like that's like a very, that keeps me. It's the carrot just dangling right in front of me, right? It's just out of reach. So I keep reaching for it. I keep reaching for it. You show me a carrot a mile away. I'm like, ah, it's not worth it, right? So that's kind of the idea that has to be right there to keep you motivated. Now, for me, that's what works really well. I don't motivate myself, you know, through punishment. Unpunishing myself when I do a bad job. It's by kind of rewarding myself and just setting this goal. Like this is the next step out. And once I achieve it, you know, the reward is that I get a huge sense of accomplishment. And I feel like I've done a great job. And the pat on the back from myself is the reward I need. I don't need to reward myself by, you know, like getting an ice cream or doing something silly like that. Like the reward is the achievement. So when it comes to setting new goals, I don't like to set generally goals in dollar amount. And the reason is I don't want to fixate on trading my P&L, right? So this is your P&L, your profit loss. I don't want to focus on this number all day long. I'd rather focus on trading the market that's right in front of me. And I would rather focus on, for instance, what's the longest streak I can make of consecutive days of true discipline, days where I follow all of the rules of my trading plan. I follow the process. Now, I know it's easy to deviate and it happens to me from time to time. Usually it's like once every like six to eight weeks, I'll have a day where I get frustrated. I'm just like, I didn't sleep well, you know, my fuse is a little short. And next thing, you know, I'm getting stubborn. And I'm like, I'm not going to cut this loss. I'm going to keep adding to it. It's going to turn around. The next thing, you know, I'm down, you know, five grand or 10 grand. It's like, gah, Lee. And I get frustrated. So that was, well, all right. So I broke the streak and I have to be honest with myself on that. So I had a day just this last week where I broke my streak of consecutive days of discipline. But when we pull up my calendar here, I had been on a really, really nice run. I was feeling, you know, I mean, I still feel good about it. It's, it's okay. It's, it's not the end of the world that I broke that streak. But, um, but you know, it's something you have to be honest with yourself about was today, a day where, um, I followed my rules and maintained my discipline because here's the thing. If you're maintaining your discipline and you're continuing to push the edge of share size and you're, you're pushing the edge of your comfort zone and you're cutting losses faster and you're staying within your niche of the market, the results will follow. You don't need to focus on results. When you focus on results, you're not thinking about this stuff. You're just focusing on the number. I want this amount of money and I'll, you know, however, it's like, don't focus on the result. Don't focus on the end product. Focus on the process. Stay disciplined every day. Do what other traders are doing every day. Look for the best stocks to trade. Trade the stocks that everyone else is focusing on because those stocks are generally going to perform the best. Push the edge of your share size tier, you know, to the edge of your comfort zone. Of course, in Sim, if you're in Sim or real money, you know, when you get there, cut your losses faster. This is the area to focus right in here. Now, when we take a look at my metrics, this was a new record month for the year for me. 233,000, no, it's 232. Oh, you know what? That was because I included yesterday in that report. So this was just, so today's Friday, Thursday was a small green day. Okay, so this is just the month of July. So this is filtered just to July. So we're going to look at the analytics here and see what we can learn about this month. Now, high level, let's see, 200 and no, wait a second. Why is it showing 233? That's funny. Oh, well, let's look on the calendar. Let's go back. So we'll take a look on the calendar. We'll just take a peek at this. Just now I'm curious. 232, yeah, okay. Well, July 1st to the 31st. I don't know. I wonder if it's including, but we'll take this out. So this software I've been using for a really long time. They recently did some updates and I'm not in love with the updates. I find them to be a little, sometimes it just doesn't seem to work quite right. Anyways, whatever. So we'll just roll with it. Nonetheless, you get the idea certainly. So let's look at this kind of high level. So large is gained 29,000. Wow. Okay, biggest loser, 4,600. So that's just high level, right? So our tip of the iceberg. Let's see, total number of trades here, 800, accuracy 65%. And I think that that should be inspiring for you guys. You do not have to be right 100% of time to make money. I know a lot of people are looking for the strategy. It's going to be right 100% of time. And I'm telling you, it doesn't exist. There is no such thing. So this is great. This is $200,000, right? This is a good month, 65% accuracy. Because check this out. My average winners are $596, and my average losers are $297. That is a two to one profit to loss ratio. With a two to one profit to loss ratio, my break even is 33%. If I was at 50%, I would still be profitable. 65% is great. Average winners, four minutes long, average losers, three minutes long. Had a 40 consecutive winner streak. That's incredible. Had a 10 consecutive loser streak. Let's just, well, I don't have to do it right now. I'm curious what my longest consecutive winning streak is, because that seems amazing. But anyway, so now let's look at performance by instrument volume. So once again, I made more money when stocks had more volume. 25 million shares or more. That's where I did the best. All right, interesting. Performance by instruments relative volume. I traded some stocks with lower relative volume, but I made the most on stocks with five times relative volume. Five times relative volume, that's trading on five times higher volume today than normal. That's huge. What about instrument movement? Majority was on stocks up more than 10%, but I had some on stocks down 10% bounce off the low. Percentage of opening gap, most of them were gapping up. So this is the type of stuff. Now let's look at price and volume. So solid. So solid. There is, I don't see any room for improvement here. I'm not trying to be about myself on the back, but I mean, look, I could have branched down to the higher price range, but there wasn't anything that gave those opportunities this month. So I just stayed focused in this area for the most part, and that was the right move. So yep, this all looks good. Now time and day. All right, so Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Friday. I don't know why Thursdays were slower, but the distribution of trades here was that I traded the most on Wednesday, but actually made the most on Tuesdays. That's kind of interesting. I think this speaks to the fact that Mondays, I usually start kind of slow because it's the beginning of the new week. I don't want to, you know, fire, like, come in fired up and make a huge mistake. So I kind of start a little slower on Monday, don't take quite as many trades. If I had a good Monday, I'm much more aggressive on Tuesday and really profitable. If I had a good day at Tuesday, I feel good and I'm going to be super aggressive on Wednesday. So I traded a lot more, but actually made a little bit less on Wednesdays. So Tuesdays really my sweet spot. Thursdays traded a lot, did not have a lot to show for it. Thursdays got slow. Fridays, you know, didn't trade a lot, but did okay. I don't know, kind of interesting. Time of day. So clearly, the majority of the profit between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. This is to 10.59. And then not so much in this afternoon area. I did some trading, but you could, now this is actually really interesting. Look right here, 45 trades between 11 and 12, but how much money did that produce? 1800 bucks. Is it worth it? Doesn't look like it. I should have stopped at 10 a.m. If I had stopped at 10 a.m., I would have had one, two, three, four, five, six more hours in my day to do other things I enjoy. Now, most of the days I didn't, there were only a couple days I really traded all day long. These aren't that many trades. 11 trades, five trades, one trade, right? It's not like I sat the extra six hours every day of the month, but clearly my profit is in the morning. And the reason that that is the case is because my strategy is to trade stocks that are gapping up on news. That news comes out after hours overnight and pre-market. So once we've traded the news, you know, that first hour, the first two hours after news comes out after that, you know, the stock has had it to reaction. And then it's kind of like, that's it. So unless you have fresh news coming out or you have a stock that had news that is still really, really strong, there's not going to be as many opportunities into the afternoon. It's just not going to be the case. So interesting there. Yeah, so, and then, yeah, so, and now let's do something else here. Let's analyze, let's compare. We're going to do this just for the month. We're going to compare winners to losers. So winners and losers. And this is going to be from, let's see, July, there, apply just for the month of July. So we're going to compare winners to losers right here and generate report. What I want to do here, so here you've got $313,000 in profit, $79,000 in loss. Um, I don't know what the average daily really, so average daily gain, average daily loss. I'm not sure how that's kind of, I guess it's showing that I made $14,000 on average and lost $4,000 on average each day. But, but this is interesting. Average gain per trade was only eight shares and the loss was only eight shares, which is a one to one loss. So the reason that my, that's very interesting. The reason that my winners were bigger on the same share size was just, as it happened, I must have just had bigger share size in general on my winners than on my losers. I wonder if we were able to sort of figure out like, was there something that, why was I taking smaller share size on the losing trades? Was there already something that I was sort of like, not sure about? I'm going to have to dig deeper into that. That's an interesting one. Um, not sure the answer. So anyways, I think that's kind of interesting just to sort of compare. Looks like, um, I had the most losers on Wednesdays. That was the day I had the most trades. That was the day I had the most losers and significantly more. So maybe a little overconfidence after good days on Tuesdays, coming in and taking some bigger losses on Wednesdays. It's kind of interesting. Losses by hour of the day. Nothing really, I don't think meaningful there, but yeah, that's, that's very interesting. So price and volume, uh, I don't know if that's, I think based on the distribution of trades, that's not unusual. Um, I don't think there's anything really there. Yeah, I don't see anything standing out here as concerning or surprising. Uh, but you know, these are the types of things that you want to look at. So you want to look at your month and kind of ask, all right, what can I take from this past month and apply moving forward? So, you know, for me, look, there's not a lot that I could do that I could have done better last month. I mean, if I wanted to have made more money, I could have traded with larger share size. I could have held some of my winners a little longer. And if we continue to see the type of opportunities that we had in the market last month based on the confidence from last month, I will trade more aggressively this month. That's what happened in 2021 and 2020. All of a sudden, the market started heating up and it was like, wow, we keep seeing stocks going up a hundred percent, two hundred percent. So what did I do? What did all the traders do? We started trading bigger size. We started holding a little longer. We started seeing our profits getting a little bigger. And into that, we just kept leaning in bigger size, holding longer, bigger winners. And it was like, it kept this positive snowball of getting bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger. And it kind of culminated with GameStop in February, January, February of 2021, right? That was sort of the peak. And then after that, it softened. And you know, that was sort of like, that was the peak. If you really want to think about it, like that was the high watermark right there. That was insane. And you know, I wasn't trading during the dot com bubble. Even though during the late 90s, that's when I got introduced to the stock market. I was trading at that time. It was like a investing group kind of like, I had a partner. His name was Cooper and we were doing it with school, but it was pretend money. And you know, we weren't day trading. We were buying and holding. But I wonder if there were some stocks during the dot com bubble that sort of were like, that was the high watermark. I bet there were. And for traders that went through both cycles, what I heard was that the dot com bubble was one of those, it was like COVID. It was just like, everything was crazy. It was such huge window. And then after that, it slowed down. So now it's four years, three years later. And we saw the slow down, 2022 and 2023. And now it's picking back up, which is really exciting. It's what I love to see. So we're seeing volatility. We're seeing opportunity. And so for me, I know how to step up to the plate. What I'm not good at is easing off the throttle. So what I'm trying to remind myself each day is every single day I stand by itself. It doesn't matter what I did yesterday. That's done. A day is a new day. I start each day, same share size, 5,000 shares until I've made a thousand bucks. That's 20 cents a share. Once I'm up a thousand dollars, I take the cap off. I'll take 15,000 shares on my next trade. I have no problem with that. I start to size up, get myself to 2,500 to 3,500 to 4,500 to 5,000 dollars. That's my daily goal. You can see right now today, I'm sitting at daily goal. And I'm going to try to just keep hitting the daily goal. 5,000 dollars a day. That's looking pretty good. Now, thank you guys for tuning in. Our mind is always that trading is risky. My results aren't typical. So manage your risk, take it slow. And if you want to keep learning, make sure you download my trading plan. It will be pinned to the top of the comments and linked in the description. Let's keep studying. Let's keep learning. I'll see you guys for the next episode. Real soon.