# 56. NEW 💥How Much Money Do You REALLY Need To Start Trading?!
# id=PtFKChlL7wE (whisper base.en)

In today's episode, I'm going to answer the question so many of you have been asking, Ross, how much money do I really need in order to start trade? Now when I first answered this question in an episode just like this, it was four years ago. And that episode now has 1.7 million views and people keep watching it every single day. But you know what? In the last four years, some things have changed in the market and as a result, my opinion on the amount of money you really need in order to start trading has changed as well. What I'm going to do in this episode is I'm going to break this out into a full-length class where I not only talk about how much money you really need in order to start trading, I'm going to walk you through the approach that I would take and the strategies I would implement depending on the amount of money that I have. So if I was starting with 500, I'm going to walk you through the tools, the broker, the strategy that I would use. I was starting with 5,000, 25,000, the same. So I hope this episode serves as a great, getting started guide. So those of you who are at the beginning of the road and are trying to figure out how to approach this new hobby, potentially career, of learning how to trade. We're going to start by talking about the pattern day trader rule. It's called the PDT rule for short, so we call it the PDT rule. And this is a rule that was enacted on February 27th, 2001. And a lot of people think that this was a rule that was created to protect retail traders after the dot com bubble. So what you may know is that in the late 90s, there was an incredible bubble in the market in tech stocks, especially dot com companies. And they were going insane. And during that same period of time, it was the very beginning of online trading being accessible to regular people, like you and I. Now, the only thing back then was that internet was one of the biggest limiting factors of how many people could actively trade. So it was mostly people in suburban areas or urban areas who had fast enough internet that they could use these online trading platforms like e-trade to trade in the market. But what happened is this created a huge boom of interest in trading, but eventually it created a bubble and that bubble burst. And when that bubble burst, it threatened not just, of course, the actual traders who lost money, but the brokers. And so the PDT rule requires active day traders to maintain a minimum balance in their account of $25,000. And this is not really about protecting the individual trader. It's about protecting the broker, protecting the broker. So essentially to make sure that traders have enough money so the broker won't be stuck if the trader loses it. So it gives the broker a bigger cushion. So this is a rule that was designed to protect brokers, not retail, individual traders like you and I. However, it has had a very significant effect on regular traders like us because, so here's the deal. When I first funded my real money account in 2001, it would have been right around the time of the PDT rule. Now at that time, I wasn't day trading. I was just buying some stocks that I thought had the potential to go higher and I was just planning on holding them and leaving them. But when I came back into the market and started day trading, I funded an account with I think it's three or $4,000 with e-trade. I took a few trades and immediately got flagged as a pattern day trader. So I was like a pattern day trader, what is this? So the way it works, the way the PDT rule works is that if you take three or more round trip trades in a five day period, consecutive five business day period, you'll be flagged, well here's a little flag here, as a pattern day trader and all pattern day traders must maintain a minimum balance in their account, $25,000. Now that $25,000 balance can be cash or it can be $25,000 of stock. It doesn't matter, it just has to be over $25,000. Now if you're over $25,000, you could day trade as much as you want. But if you're under, you're stuck. And so this was what I discovered. I got flagged as a pattern day trader and my account was locked. I think they said at that time, it would be locked for 90 days. So I wouldn't be able to take any more trades for 90 days unless I deposited the difference to get my account above 25 grand. And at that time, I was like, that's a lot of money. I really want to trade. I see other people trading. I need that amount of money to trade. And at that time, the answer was yes, more or less. I mean, there were a couple of things you could do to get around it, which I'll talk about. But the short answer was yes, that was what I need to do. So what I ended up doing was I added more money to the account. I got it up to $25,000. And I think it's worth mentioning that the pattern day trader rule, the PDT rule only applies to margin accounts. So this was a $25,000 margin account. And for those that are beginners, there's two different account types. There's margin. And then there's cash. Now no day trader in the early 2000s and during the period when I was learning how to trade would use a cash account. Because in those days, a cash account would take three days for each trade to settle. This was kind of preposterous. You could take one trade electronically, just like on e-trade, you buy, you sell in a minute. And then you have to wait three days for that trade to settle, for the funds to clear. Like as if you had brought a check to your bank and the bank is waiting for the money to clear. Let's say you had $3,000 and you had a cash only account will do the math. If you had, and this was in 2005, for instance, or 2007, if you had $3,000 and you had a cash account, you could buy a thousand shares of a $3 stock for 3,000 bucks, right? You could sell it for $300 a profit and then this money would be tied up for three days. So essentially it put you in a position where you could really, you couldn't day trade with a cash account. So nobody set up cash accounts in the 2000s, you know, in that period for day trading. Everyone set up a margin account. Now a margin account requires signing a margin agreement. So what is margin? Margin allows you to trade on borrowed money. So essentially the way a margin agreement works is you funded account with $25,000 right here. And now you don't have to wait three days for each trade to settle. You could trade that same money again and again and again. And what the broker is actually doing is they're lending you money because the trades still take three days to settle, but they're not making you wait for that money to clear before you can trade. So they'll let you keep trading. So you could trade, if you want to trade two, you could trade $25 million of stock in one day, even though you only have a $25,000 balance and you would do that by, you know, finding a stock, whatever that you just liked and trading it a thousand times during the day. And so you could trade $25 million of stock if you wanted to. It doesn't matter. And actually the broker would love it if you did because the way the broker works is when you have that margin agreement and you're doing all this trading, they get to make a small little fraction, you know, whatever it is, little percent on every trade you take. And they take that in the form of fees and commissions. So this margin agreement allows unlimited trading and limited trading. So naturally, most active day traders, I would say 90% plus would choose a margin account. It's also worth noting that if you want to short stocks, you require a margin account. You cannot short without a margin account. So margin accounts are required, but you do have to sign this margin agreement. And when you sign this margin agreement, what you're stating is that if you lose money that you're trading on that's borrowed money, you'll owe it back to your broker. Now, you might think, well, what kind of scenario would this happen? I mean, it's not like I'm going to take a trade and the trade won't clear. It's not like cashing a bad check. You're right. It's not like cashing a bad check. You would never have a trade that you take that doesn't clear. So why would you ever be in a position of owing the money? Well, let's say you bought a stock at $25 a share and you bought 1,000 shares. So that's $25,000 of stock. So you buy $25,000 of stock right here and you buy at $25 a share. So, right, so times 1,000 shares equals $25,000. And let's just say you buy it and then a moment later, the stock reports are going into bankruptcy and they drop to $0.10 a share. Okay, so you're now down $24,900 whatever, right? You're down a ton, but you wouldn't owe the broker money. I mean, your account's gone, but you don't owe the broker money. Okay, well, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, what if you did it this way? What if you said $25 a share, I'm going to short it, I'm going to go negative 1,000 shares. And what if the stock then goes up to $50 a share? If it goes up to $50 a share, you're down $25,000. What if you were in that position and the company got bought out at $100 a share? It just news broke and they got bought out at $100 a share. Oh my gosh, okay. So all of a sudden now in this scenario, you're actually negative $75,000 of borrowed money because you have to buy back the shares at $100 because you shorted it. That's the way it works. When you create a negative position, you've got to buy back those shares. So when you buy back $100 shares, $1,000 shares, $100,000, it's $100,000 minus $25,000 from the initial position, you're actually negative $75,000. So when you short stocks, you have the risk of going into the negative. In fact, you have the risk of losing more than you initially deposited because if you shorted a stock and it goes parabolic, it goes straight up, you would have to buy back those shares at a higher price. Now, I've got a ton of really interesting examples that I could show you of this happening and it's really remarkable when it happens. So this is from a class I taught earlier this year and you could see these stocks that the chart pattern where you've got this ascension up and then this massive drop. And this is where a short seller could make a lot of money. You short a stock of $25. It drops to $4 a share, right, on 1,000 shares. Even just 1,000 shares, you could be up 20 grand. That's a really nice move. And so traders who trade to the short side recognize that this is an incredible opportunity when you get these big rejections. These are a few of them. However, what happens when you get something that just continues to climb higher and just pushes higher and higher and higher? Well, that's when things get a little scary. So here's an example here where this stock went from $3 a share to $2,500 a share, which means even just a small 5,000 position, 5,000 share position, could have produced a loss of $12.5 million. So I'll say right now that as a beginner trader, you should be very cautious considering strategies that involve short selling because of the risk of unlimited loss. It's theoretical that it's unlimited because no stock goes to infinity, but here are real examples of stock that went from $20 a share to $2,500. Here's another example of, well, GameStop. This resulted in Melvin Capital losing $6.8 billion on a position to the short side. So I don't want you to underestimate the risk of short selling. And that's kind of a side note, but it's just worth noting because it's part of the understanding of how a margin account works. But something that's also very interesting is that when you get a margin account, you automatically get something else and that's called leverage. So in the 1920s, not to go into a history lesson, but in the 1920s, the stock market in a lot of ways was propped up by leverage. Traders were able, and I wouldn't really call them traders, but individual, regular people were able to buy into the market using essentially a layaway program. So if you're familiar with the turn of the century, the concept of buying things on credit on layaway was taking hold across America. So people would buy big things like cars or appliances, dishwasher, refrigerator, things like that. Put a little bit of money down and then you would own this thing and you would just keep paying a little bit each month. So they applied that same concept to the stock market. They said, look, you could buy $100,000 just for example, worth of stock, but you only need to put down $10,000. And so all of a sudden people start doing exactly that. And so the reason that the market ballooned to such high levels was because so many people were buying using only like 10% down, and then the remaining 90% was financed by the bank. Well, what happens when you trade on leverage? Well, if you are familiar with the stock market crash of 1929, what happens is while the price is going up, you're fine with your leverage. So let's say you bought, let's just say four to one. So let's just say you bought, you had a $25,000 account and you bought $100,000 worth of stock of something at $10 a share, all right? So you're in with 75,000 of borrowed money. When this thing, if this thing goes up to $15, it goes up to $20, you're in great shape. This thing is doubled, right? So your value went from $100,000 to $200,000 and you did that all with a $25,000 initial position. You've done really well, right? Your return on your investments done well. But then what happens if you got in at 10 and it drops to five? So if it drops to five, well, now wait a second, this isn't good. You put in $100,000, it's now down 50,000 off the top. Your 25,000 is gone. You now owe your broker the difference, 50 minus 25 is 25. So you now owe your broker $25,000. And so this is called a margin call. A margin call will be issued by a broker and they'll say, you need to add more money to your account, otherwise we're going to liquidate your position because the broker doesn't want to go negative 25,000. So in fact, what they'll do is they'll say, well, you got in this at 10 and you got in with 100,000 shares. So if it drops from 10 down to $7.50, they're going to then send you the margin call because that's when your $25,000 is gone. So now the broker is going to, if you don't put more money in, they're going to execute the sell order, close your account, they're going to get back their 75 grand. So they're protecting themselves and your 25,000 gone. And the problem with a margin agreement is that with a margin agreement, the broker will try to as with anything they can to get that money from you that they lost. If you went negative, if it went down to like $50 or, you know, $50,000 or whatever the case is. So if you're actually negative on that position, the broker is then going to come to you and they could put a lean on your house, they could try to take your car. And so it's really, it's really very serious. Now what you can also probably understand with what happened during the crash of 1929 is that when all these people got these margin calls, they couldn't afford to add more money. So the result was, well, the bank said, all right, we're going to bail out and now the banks are bailing out, but they're not getting $7.50 a share because everyone's selling, they're getting $6, they're getting $5, they're getting $4. And so now the banks are on the hook for these losses and they can't cover them. And so what ended up happening during the 1930s was thousands of banks ended up going bankrupt and it was because of the reckless use of leverage. So what might surprise you to learn is that today when you fund an account with $25,000, you get four times leverage. We still have leverage, leverage is still offered in the market. So the market to a certain extent is still propped up on leverage. Think of it what you want, but this is the market that we're in. So with four times leverage, I will say that brokers like E-Trade, Thinkorswim, Charles Schwab, whatever. You can only use two times leverage for overnight holds and you can use four times for day trading. So you can overnight hold two times leverage and you can day trade with four times leverage. So now you've got $25,000 account because $25,000 is the PDT minimum, right? So PDT minimum is $25,000. So you've got your $25,000 account and then times four, you have $100,000 of buying power. And I think this is actually probably one of the reasons that a lot of traders end up losing money because you have a lot more buying power than you need. It's like giving a teenager a Ferrari as their first car. It's way too fast. It's way too powerful. Let's get real. They're going to make mistakes. Every beginner and driver makes mistakes, right? You want to make those mistakes on a beater, on a car that's safe and durable that you won't get hurt in, but also it doesn't matter if you get some dings in it. You should think of a trading account the same way. You're going to make some mistakes when you first get started trading. If you're a beginner, no question about it. You're going to make mistakes. So I think starting with $100,000 of buying power is way too much money. But because of the PDT rule, that's what most beginners will get if they take the leap and fund the account $25,000. But that's not the only way to start trading. So let's talk about something different. All right. So what we know now is number one, we have what's called the PDT rule, which has a $25,000 minimum. So for some traders who are going to choose to follow the PDT rule, they'll have to start with $25,000 in their account. But the second is coming back to this cash account. So when we talked about cash accounts before, I mentioned that it was a three day settlement period. That was when I was starting to trade. And then it changed to two days. And just this year it changed to one day, which means settlement is now overnight. So now let's do the math here and think about this for a second. So if you fund an account, a day trading account with $3,000, just for instance, you could buy 3,000 shares of a $1 stock, I guess. And if you make 300 bucks on it or whatever the case is, you take that trade, you could take one trade a day with the full cash amount, the full cash balance of your account, and then that trade has to settle overnight. And by the next morning, you could trade again. So with a cash account, you could take one trade per day with the full balance of your account. So whatever the balance is, and I actually think that's very compelling because you can trade every single day. And depending on how much money you add into your account, maybe you could take two or three trades each day if they were smaller trades. The only thing that I generally think about is that whenever I've done small account challenges, I generally think the best I can do is to grow the account 10% in one day. Now I know that there are some traders who may be interested in options trading or really high risk penny stocks that have the potential to go from four cents to eight cents in one day. So you could, in theory, double your account in one day, but I haven't found success with that. I've been trading for more than a decade. I mean, I took my first trade in 2001. So I've been trading, that's 23, 24 years, I've been at this for a long time. And I haven't seen a lot of people find long term success doing that. Where I have found long term success is by focusing on base hit trading, I look for a stock that I think has the potential to go up 30, 40, 50%. And I just try to carve 10% off of that move, just a little bit here, a little bit there, maybe three trades of 3%, that's 9% on the day. So for me, when I'm thinking about best case scenario, it's taking that $3,000 account and growing it by 10% in one day, that's kind of like best case scenario, which to be honest is still really, really good. But for me, I'm usually doing it, not with a cash account, but with a margin account. So I could actually take three or four trades, or I could take 100 trades if I wanted to. But when I'm thinking about 10% in one day, I'm thinking about doing that with a margin account. So with a cash account, because you can only get one trade a day with that amount, that sort of balance, that's where I'm kind of thinking realistically, it's like 2%, maybe 3% per day. So this is where even with a $3,000 account, the amount that I could make per day is like, what, 30, 60, maybe $100, which I mean, you can't really complain, but 60 to 100, let's just say, you know, kind of rough numbers. But to me, that's certainly not as much as if I had a $3,000 account that I had leverage on, because if I had a $3,000 account and I had four times leverage on it, then I would be focusing on 10% a day, that's 300 a day. So now you're probably like, well, wait a second, you said there's a $25,000 minimum right here to get four times leverage and to have the margin. So how would you get four times leverage with a $3,000 account? So what's interesting here, and this is going to be point number three. So point number one, we've got the PDT rule, point number two, we've got cash accounts. So point number three here, we're going to talk about different brokers. So what it's surprising to learn that not all brokers enforce the PDT rule, that probably would be surprising. So as it turns out, the PDT rule is enforced by all U.S. broker dealers. So Charles Schwab, Fidelity, E-Trade, all of the Robinhood, Webull, all of them enforce the $25,000 PDT rule. However, international brokers are not required to enforce it because it's not a rule that was created by their regulatory enforcement agencies. So a lot of international traders will trade the U.S. market, and they don't have to worry about the PDT rule at all. They could trade with a margin account, and they can have $5,000, and they could trade as much as they want. So this is really interesting. So now we have to kind of branch out here between U.S. and then everything else, which is non-U.S. So U.S. is going to require $25K plus. And non-U.S., well, I mean, they just don't. So you have non-U.S. brokers that have a minimum as low as $500, and then, of course, you have some non-U.S. brokers that have $5,000, $10,000 minimums, depending on the individual broker. So for most international traders, most international traders would not choose to trade with a U.S. broker dealer, because they would then be required to have that $25,000 minimum. And so they would instead use a local broker dealer in their jurisdiction that allows trading of the U.S. market. And this is very common because the U.S. market is, I think, the most popular market in the world. It has the most volume, the most liquidity. It has, for that reason, probably the most opportunity. And so I know from my experience at Warrior Trading, and just being here on YouTube, that we have people that tune in from Japan, from Australia, from Europe, from all around the world, traders who are into buy, and they're trading the U.S. market. They trade the U.S. market because of the volatility and the opportunity that this market provides. So they're not necessarily using a U.S. broker dealer. If you're into buying, you say, hey, can I open an account with each trade? A lot of these brokers will say, no, no, you're not a U.S. resident. We don't, you're not opening an account here. So there are different broker dealers in different jurisdictions that will cater to you. Now some, there are some broker dealers that are in the U.S. and are also international. The Thinkorswim TD Ameritrade before the merger with Charles Schwab did accept some international customers, Interactive Brokers accepts international customers. And what's interesting about Interactive Brokers is that they have an international office, non-PDT, and then they have a U.S. office that's PDT. So they separate you between whether or not you have to follow that rule. So currently, there are also some international brokers, so non-U.S. brokers that will add another branch here, accept U.S. residents. So this is very interesting. A non-U.S. broker, so they're not located in the United States. They therefore do not enforce the PDT rule, but they accept a U.S. resident. So I could, if I wanted to, open an account with $500 or $1,000 or $3,000. And then I'm back to being able to trade with four times leverage. And I don't have to have $25,000. Yes, the answer is yes. So that's what I did during one of my, well, actually during several of my small account challenges. Now what I'm going to do is I'll put a link down in the description for a page that you can go to to see the current brokers that I like. Now, you have to recognize that a U.S. broker dealer is going to come with certain insurances that you won't get internationally. You want deposit insurance, you know, you want to be able to feel like you can very easily move your money in that of the account, then, you know, a U.S. bank and U.S. broker dealers is the choice. If you're comfortable with an international broker and you're comfortable with the fact that if that broker went bankrupt all of a sudden, they go out of business, what would be your recourse for getting money out of an account that's in Ireland or in the Caribbean or wherever it is? It might be hard. You might not be able to get it. And so I want to present to you this as essentially a list of choices that you have. And you have to make the choice that best serves you. So let me talk about my process for how I made the choices for myself. Hopefully that'll help you sort of educate you and at least the things you should be thinking and asking yourself. When I first started trading, it was back at a time where we had three, it might have even been, it was definitely three days settlement, it might have even been longer. Anyways, the settlement period was long enough that I just knew that a cash account for me was out of the question. So I was having to make the decision to cash or PDT. So for me, at the time that I got started, cash was out of the question and PDT was an option. Now I was in a position where my father had passed away when I was younger and he had left some money for me and my sister. This was money that he had gotten when he sold his mom's house when she passed away in 1993. So that money had been sitting in the market and that gave me money and it gave my sister some money. I didn't get it until my younger sister turned 21. But when we got it, that gave me enough money to fund my first PDT account. And I'm really, I mean, I wouldn't be here if it weren't for that. I really wouldn't. So I'm really grateful for that and that's not something that everyone has. So that was the situation that I was in when I got started. My father passed away more than 15 years ago. So this was quite a long time ago. So I was able to go the PDT route and fund the $25,000 account. But what I decided to do in 2017, in 2017, I decided to do a small account challenge. And what I decided to do was start over. I said, you know what? I'm going to start over and I'm going to do it with $583 right here. So start over with $583 and I think it was 15 cents or something like that. Five hundred eighty three. Yeah, something like that. Anyways, I started over here and now I had them to make the decision in 2017 of once again cash or PDT. So if I chose a cash account, I would only be able to trade with $583 once every three days. Okay, so let's just think about that for a second. If you have an account that small, cash account in those days, it wouldn't work. If you have a cash account that small today, you could take one trade every single day using the full $583. And if you're really good at picking good stocks, maybe you could get five to 10% per day and grow the account by $30 to $50. And it would grow pretty quickly if you were able to do that. You're basically limited to one trade a day or I could do a PDT account. Now a PDT account would allow me to take three trades every five days. So I could take all three trades in one day, but then I can't trade again until the next week. So this is a case study for people who are working full time, but maybe have Fridays off or have Mondays off. So they would say, well, actually this account works for me because I come in, I take all my trades on that one day and then, you know, I'm off for the rest of the week anyways with my regular job. So I switched gears. That would work, however, that's also kind of tricky. So what I ended up doing was I went offshore and I opened a account with the $583 and I started trading with an offshore broker. Now when I funded the account of $583, that broker, you know, I knew I was taking risk I thought, well, you know, I mean, it's definitely risky, but it's also 600 bucks. So I can tolerate the risk. So with this account, I had my leverage, so leverage. I was able to short stocks if I wanted to. And of course I had unlimited trading. So these were all the pros. The cons were the fact that it was offshore, so carried a little bit more risk and they had higher commissions on the trades. So the commissions when I first started there were about $5 per trade. So $5 for every trade. So now let me show you what I did in that first month. So in that first month, this is January 1st, 2017. I funded the account. We can actually go to the calendar view for January 1st. So I funded the account right here. And on my first day, I actually made $156. So I'm just going to show you this for one second. So this is my, this is seven years of audited trading results from January 1st, 2017 through December of 2023. So I get these done at the end of each year. So this just verifies for you that I started with $583 beginning equity balance January 1st. And in January, I made $16,000. I made $16,000 in February, I made $60,000. So let's just look here. This is January and February. So it won't goes to March 1st, but that's fine. We'll just, this will just give you kind of like the, the, the rough idea. So let's see. So I had 119 trades and the total gain through March 1st was $76,000, right? So 60,000 from February plus 16,000 from January. So about $76,000 plus whatever I might have made on March 1st. I don't know. Okay. So imagine taking 119 trades during this very short period of time. The only way that I was able to do that was because of the fact that I had this offshore broker. Now it's true. I was taking two trades a day, two trades, two trades, two trades, two trades, two trades, two trades, two trades. Seven trades and two trades. Why was I mostly taking two trades a day? I had a strategy and I still trade this strategy when I'm trading with a small account. My strategy was to get in, get green, get out and to get, my goal was one good trade a day, but two, if I saw two good setups and not overstay my welcome because my number one goal was growing that account. So for me, given the choice between a cash account and an offshore margin account, there's no question that I far outpaced the amount of money I could have made if I'd been trading with a PDT account or a cash account in the US. No question about it. I mean, $60,000 in such a short period of time is unreal. And of course, as many of you know, this account has now grown to over $10 million in profit. So what I did was as soon as I was above $25,000, so right here is in March or April, I closed the account and I moved my money to a US broker dealer because then I at that point I had 25 grand. So then what would I consider that offshore broker? I would consider the offshore broker to be a tool. It's a tool that I used during a period of time when my options were limited. It was a choice that I made. I did pay fees and commissions. If we look at these trades here from January and February, I paid a total of $4,800 in fees, which you could see right here, plus I paid an additional $2,200 in commissions. So we'll just round it up to $5,000, $6,000, $7,000. So as it turns out, you know, percentage wise, it's like 10%, it's not it's not calculated by percentage, it's calculated based on the number of individual trades and the number of shares you trade, but in any case, 45,000 shares of daily volume. So that's sort of, it's a different calculation, but nonetheless, it ended up being about 10%. So if I was posed with a question of was it worth it to pay a 10% rough commission on my trades for that period of time for the, that's the cost of using the tool, my answer would be yes, it was worth it. For me, at that time, but now I want to turn the table to you because what's the right answer for you? Sometimes people will say, Ross, well, clearly the right answers to use these offshore broker dealers. Look at how fast you grew that account. I mean, it's, it's pretty much a no brainer, right? Well, not so fast because remember that in 2017, when I began that small account challenge, the previous year in 2016, I'd made almost a quarter million dollars trade. I was up 200. Let's see. It's $220,000 of profit in 2016. I was already a profitable trader. I knew what I was doing. I was making money. I had a proven strategy. It wasn't proven just in a simulator, it was proven with real money. So I was making money. I started in January of 2017 because at that time, I had so many people that were asking me, Ross, you've got a huge account. Do you think you could even make money in a small account? People were challenging me. They're like, Ross, I bet you couldn't. I bet if you had a $1,000 account, you couldn't even make, you know, whatever. And so I kind of was like, well, wait a second, yes, I think I can. And so I went ahead and took on the challenge. So what you have to understand was essentially coming into day one, the skill set that I had was different. So let's talk about day one. So if on day one, and it's not really day one, to be honest, if you already have. So let's call it, you know, the moment of, what should we call it? So it's, you know, decision time. So D day, all right. So whatever decision time. So we've got decision time here of which broker to use. So if you're in this scenario of years of experience, either in a sim, potentially, or real money, what you have here in this sort of a scenario is a track record. You have a track record of success. You know what you're doing and all you need, most likely, is the right tool for a limited period of time in order to grow the account above 25,000. So in this, in this scenario for me, the answer was yes. Now let me give you another scenario, brand new, brand new, no sim experience and, you know, no real money experience. If you're brand new with no sim experience and no real money experience, I'm going to say the answer is no. And here's why. While you're trading with an offshore broker dealer, you're going to be paying fees. You're going to be paying also platform fees. Their platforms aren't free. Now it's worth noting. You can also pay platform fees with US broker dealers. So that's not especially specific to offshore, but you're going to be kind of nickeled and dined on the fees and the commissions, the platform costs, even wiring fees, things like that. And it's going to eat away at the very small account you have. Additionally, what we know about trading with leverage is that it carries a lot of risk, both for the broker, but also for the individual retail trader. And so it's, this is kind of like, you know, it's not exactly a Ferrari to trade with an offshore broker, but you've got a lot of power. You've got a lot of power and that requires responsibility. So this is the way I would think about it. I think small accounts are proof of concept and I think they're a very important proof of concept. So now we're going to talk about number four. All right. So we talked about brokers and I'll just change this to purple to be consistent. So brokers, US versus non US, and we'll make that point number three. Now we're going to talk about point number four, choice and experience, experience level. Okay. So now this is where we're actually trying to make the choice of what is the right account to use. So as you saw for me, there's no, there's really no question that the offshore broker was the right choice for me, but what I think is a small account is important for proof of concept. So I'm going to make an argument here that the right amount of money, the right amount of money to start with is $2,500. Now you could go a little higher or a little lower if you want, but I'm just going to, I'm going to make an argument for 2,500 approximately. And this is how I'm going to lay it out. I would encourage using a cash account with one day settlement. So of course, you don't have to choose a settlement, but because today there's more in parentheses, currently has one day settlement. And what I would encourage you to do as a beginner trader is to trade with between, like one and 10 shares. Now you might think, well, geez, Ross, come on, let's get real. I'm going to buy 10 shares of a $3 stock, right? Sell it at 310, but yes, you should. And the reason you should do that is because you should begin to build your own track record right here because that's what I had in 2016. So let me go to 2016 here. What we have here is a year of track record. Now, I mean, at 220 plus $1,000 is a great year. It's not really proof of concept, but this is a lot of track record. So what I want you to do is I want you to trade in this small account and produce your track record. How do you produce a track record? You trade every single day and you don't trade. You see, the problem is if you took one trade with a full $2,500 each day, you would only be building a track record at the rate of one trade a day. I mean, it's going to take you months to get a hundred trades, right? And you need a hundred trades of data to kind of understand, what's my accuracy? What's my profit to loss ratio? How well am I trading? So if you don't have all that data, it's really hard to have confidence in your strategy. So I'm a big advocate of setting up a small cash account and trading in it a ton with small size, but you may also get the impression that this is more or less the same as trading in a simulator. And to be honest, the first step before you ever fund a real money account is to trade in a sim. So while I think this is the amount to start with, we'll do on the sidebar here. So step one. And then now we're going to kind of get into how I would approach trading as a beginner. So step one here, obviously, is education. And this education can come in the form of watching episodes on YouTube just like this. Read books, get education. If you want to do courses, of course, I had classes at Warrior trading, but however you get educated, get educated, because what you need is that basic understanding of how the market works. You need general understanding of how trading works. And then you also need the development of number two strategy. Okay. So for instance, I have a strategy that I trade every single day. I'll actually put a link in the top of the comments. I'll pin the top of the comments. I'll put it in the description for my small account strategy. It's a PDF that you can download and that's going to give you the rules of the strategy that I'm trading. Okay. So especially when I'm focusing on small accounts, so you could download that and use that as a reference point. So get your education, choose a strategy that you're going to trade. I always think it's a good idea to choose a strategy that is being traded by other people, profitably, right? So those are, that's proof that the strategy that I'm trading works. It works for me. Now, of course, you could go over to Warrior trading. You could check out some of our success stories and see members that have done really well. As always, I'll remind you that my results are not typical and neither are the results of some of these students who have done exceptionally well. We don't track the typical result of every trader who takes our classes or uses our software. We do have a program where people can voluntarily give us their broker statements and we could verify their profits. And so we have some case studies for some of these members, but just as a disclaimer for you, but nonetheless, I think the point here is that learn a strategy that is actually being traded by a lot of people, profitably. So that's number two. And then number three, you've got to see if you can trade that strategy profitably yourself. And that's where step three, Sim comes into play. So trading in a simulator, we offer a simulator for all of our Warrior pro members, for example. And that'll give you real time level two data. So you can actually trade the market side by side with me. So if I pull up my screen share here, so when I'm trading each day, I'll walk you through kind of my, my approach, but, um, but I'm using, let's see, I'm using the software in which you'll be able to see right here. And this is what you'll essentially have access to. You'll have access to software just like this that allows you to trade the markets, you'll be able to trade side by side of me. And, you know, if you end up finding some real success in doing really well, which is, of course, what I would love to see, then that becomes your proof of concept that you know what you're doing. And it's time to find an account with real money. So it's only at that point once you've traded in the Sim and you've analyzed your metrics and you've developed a track record that you fund an account. So this is the point here where, right, we sort of have our, um, our, our moment of making the choice where some people will say, look, I've got a great track record in a simulator. I'm ready to go with the offshore broker. I could fund the account with 2,500 over there and I could get four times or even six times leverage. That could give me up to $10,000, you know, or more buying power, right? So now all of a sudden I see a stock that pops up on the scanners at $10 a share. I could buy a thousand shares. That thing goes to 10.50. I'm out with $500 a profit. I'm going to make four times more what I would make if I was only using a cash account based on the amount of money you can trade and I can trade unlimited amount of time, but, you know, the transition from simulator to real money has to be taken cautiously. So I still think the more, the more conservative approach is to transition by trading in the sim and then opening a cash account and focusing on trading with a really small size. See if your metrics, your accuracy, your profit loss ratio. See if all of that converts from the sim to real money. And if it does convert to real money, then this, this whole period right here has been your ultimate proof of concept. So this was this sim trading is proof of concept as well. There's no question about it, but this takes it to the next level. This is in production with real money. And of course, with brokers like Robin Hood and Thicker Swim, et cetera, you'll have no commissions. You could day trade as much as you want with that tiny size. Will you make a lot of money? Now the answer is no, you will not make a lot of money. But here's what I'm a big advocate of building a strong foundation. If you're coming into this, wanting to turn 5,000 into a million dollars in the next eight months, so you can do something, you know, nine months from now, it's a recipe for disaster. It's not going to happen. You have to think of this as a marathon. You have to think of this as something that takes years to build the educated intuition to get really, really good at it. But you have to, you know, pay your dues. You have to put your time in. And so the best way to build a solid foundation is to begin with education, get into a strategy that works for other people, prove that it can work for you, sim trade, and then real money. So this is really the spot, real money, where you have to make the choice. And look, you can start real money with an offshore broker with 500 bucks. I've done it, other people have done it, you can do it. Is it extremely hard? Yes, it is. I took on that challenge because people were challenging me. They were saying, I don't think you can do it. And I said, you know what, I'm going to try. So I took on that challenge, but I did that with a lot of experience already under my belt. So I think it's really important to understand that as a beginner, I'm not sure that it's necessary to take on a challenge that difficult because the fact is trading with a $500 account, you, you make one mistake and your account could be locked up and, and you know, now you can't trade. You've got your fees and commissions on every trade you take. So I think a starting amount in the $2,500 range is more reasonable. Now, some people would say, well, should I start with 30,000? Should I just fund that e-trade account or think or swim or whatever it is, a 25 grand? And I honestly think that the answer is no. I think that that rule is great for brokers because it basically gives them a lot more money on their, on the books of assets that they have that, you know, their clients are holding as deposits. But I don't think that's a good idea for retail traders. The reason I don't think it's a good idea is because it's too easy to make a mistake when you've got $100,000 in buying power. It's too much buying power. It's not a good idea. And if I, for me, I honestly think one of the reasons that I suffered as much as I did when I was getting started was because I had the money to create the $25,000 account and then, you know, I didn't have the discipline. I didn't have the strategy. And so when it ended up happening, I lost a lot of money getting started. That was my learning curve, right? We want to map out my learning curve without like when I was getting started. I had, so I'll just do it here. I had a little bit of beginner's luck and then had a long period of losing money. And I went net negative and then I had a period of going flat. And then I had a period where I started to make moves up and then I have a big drop down and then another move up and then a big drop down and then another move up and then the drops down just became a little bit more spaced out. These were days where I fell victim to emotional capitulation. I got stubborn. I got frustrated and I let FOMO get the best of me. And, you know, it kept happening and it continues to happen even today. Trading is emotional and that's, you know, that's really why I think it's so important when you transition from sim to real money that you make that transition with small share size, because what sim doesn't give you a true appreciation for are the emotions that come with losing money. The real emotions of I just lost 500 bucks like that. The fact that you lose it that fast makes you think you can get it back that fast. An ex-senior down 1500, 2500, 3500, 10 grand, 20 grand, 30 grand, 40 grand. It's incredible how traders can snowball, not necessarily in one day, but over the course of weeks and months. So to prevent that, it all comes back to building a really solid foundation. Learning the rules of trading. Okay. So if we jump back over here onto the whiteboard, my, my opinion here is that you start with a relatively small account because a small account will force you to be disciplined. I would say success in trading comes down to three D's. The three D's, dedication, discipline, and drive. You need to be incredibly disciplined when you have a small account. If you can discipline yourself to focus on small trades each day and not overstaying you're welcome, this is where you're going to build a track record for success. This is where it starts right here. So I really think this is the right number. Now, look, if you want to start with $1,000 and you're still trading with one share, that's fine. You will eventually have to add more money. But, you know, it's fine as a starting point. I would not fund an offshore broker with $500 or $1,000 at this point of our beginner because I think it's just, it's just not quite enough. I think 1,500 or 2,000 is better, 2,500, 3 grand is good, 5,000. I don't think it's necessary. I really don't. I think even with an offshore broker, you could do really well just with two or $3,000. 5,000 is more buying power than you need. But you're not being overly restricted by the broker because that's the problem with the PDT rule. It's overly restrictive. And to be honest, what I think would be the ultimate solution here, and I think it's only a matter of time is instant settlement. Because if you had instant settlement, the trade just settles instantly. You don't have to wait till the next day. And you also don't have to worry about trading with margin or with leverage. Why is it that leverage and margin have to be tied together? They don't. You could trade and have an account that allows you to trade an unlimited amount of time, but doesn't have leverage. So why don't they do it? And I think this is where, you know, you get into kind of the deeper question of to whose advantage is it to continue to offer leverage? It continues to prop up the market. It means that traders instead of trading with just $25,000 are going to be trading with $7,500,000 positions. That means more money for the broker, more transaction volume, right? More money coming from Citadel from these big clearing firms, right? These big wholesalers because they get, you know, a little sliver of every share that's traded. So there's an incentive in the market from like the very top to encourage the people down at the bottom to be trading sometimes recklessly with more money than they should because that's good for their profit. That's good for their bottom line. And I want to encourage you to do what is best for you. Doing what is best for you means starting with a sim account, focusing on building track record of success with that small account strategy. Now, if you download my small account strategy, you'll see the way I trade, how I choose the stocks I'm trading each day, where I'm getting in, where I'm getting out, it's going to walk you through the process. It's a strategy. It has a very specific set of rules. So trade that strategy in a simulator, prove you can make money following that strategy, then transition to real money, but with a cash account with a relatively small balance, you'll have free commissions and now you get to experience the emotions and you've got to start desensitizing yourself and going through that process of emotional conditioning. Because listen, losing money sucks. It's not fun. It's going to hurt and you've got to learn to deal with that pain. The traders who make it are the ones who are resilient, the ones who emotionally build a bit of a shell where you can take that loss without letting it shaking you, right, getting to that point, you've got to get there. So I always say that in sim trading, a sign that you've made it, that you're ready to go live, is that you've traded in the sim, you've had your first draw down and you recovered it. That's really important. The recovery is so important because it proves that that beginning green streak was not just good luck. You actually have something that's working because you had it working, you had a draw down and you recovered it. Now, the next big milestone is that same experience with real money trading with 10 shares, 100 shares, whatever it is with really small size. You have that first leg up, you have a pullback recovery, your first recovery with real money. That is such a big confidence booster because now for the rest of your career, you know what you get to do? You get to go back and you get to look at your metrics and you get to pull them up and you get to say, look, look, this is my last 30 days. So you could see right here, for instance, that I had my first, you know, these first days here of trading with this really small account. Let's see, well, where are we? Now I'm not even sure where we are. Oh, this is just current day. Anyways, it's fine. You get the idea. So, so let's just look at like this draw down right here. So, you know, that's a big draw down, you know, two big red days. I guess it's right here. So made some progress, gave it all back, but I recovered it. Another drop, recovered it. Another drop recovered. Each of these recoveries helps build this track record that you know what you're doing. Then you go into your detailed analytics. I use the software here, TraderVue, it's like $49 a month. It's pretty cheap. Anyways, you can analyze all of your data here and it's going to tell you everything you want to know, your accuracy, your profit loss ratio, the time of day you make the most money, the price of stock, you make the most money. I mean, anything and everything that you want to know about your strategy. This is going to tell you. And for me, the way I discovered the strategy that I trade every single day was because when I got started, when I started trading, well, so for me, it was actually a school, it was like a school semester that was on the stock market and this was in middle school. And I actually just saw my teacher from middle school about just last month. And I told him, I said, I just want to thank you for that semester you taught, because it changed the trajectory of my life literally. And he said, oh, you know, I just was trying to think of a fun way for you guys to learn math. And I was like, that was it. It was so like in passing ago, I probably also could have like chosen like something completely different. But for me, it was like really resonated. So that was in the late nineties during the dot com bubble. And then 2001, you know, set up that first account. The reason I bring that up was because I was so disciplined about tracking every single trade, because that's what we had to do in that middle school project. We had to track every trade that we took. So when I started trading the real money, I was tracking every single trade. Now today, there's software like this that you can export all your trades to and you can see it. So if you've been trading for a while and you don't know your metrics, absolutely take a second and look at them and compare them to where I'm at. Because these are the metrics here of a seasoned professional trader who's been doing it for a long time. So ultimately for you as a beginner, it can be helpful to set this sort of is like, okay, aspirational. What is this guy doing that's working? What are the steps he's taking? What's the strategy he's implementing? And what am I doing today? And how do I get from A to B, right? How do I bridge the gap? Because the tighter you can bridge that gap, the better you'll be as a trader. All right, you may never get to the level that I'm at and I probably will never get to the level of Warren Buffett and you know, everyone can say that. But you want to kind of try to continue to improve. So listen, if you've enjoyed this class and you want to learn more about my strategy, there are links in the description where you can study, you can learn more. I want to encourage you to keep focusing on building your education, build that educated intuition and don't jump in with real money until you've first done proof of concept in a simulator. Do it the right way, build a solid foundation and let's let's be at this for a long time. I've been doing this for a long time and I want to continue doing it for a long time and hope that you join me. All right, so thanks as always for tuning in and I'll remind you as always that trading is risky. My results aren't typical. So manage your risk, take it slow and I hope you hit that thumbs up and subscribe to the channel.