# 58. How to Start Day Trading as a Business (Step-by-Step Guide)
# id=OHe6_FpxO0g (whisper base.en)

All right, you know the statistics. Nine out of 10 traders lose money. Trading is risky. So if you're thinking about becoming a trader, it makes a heck of a lot of sense to figure out why most traders lose money. So you can create a game plan of what you're going to do differently. In today's episode, I'm gonna teach you how to start day trading as a business. We're gonna systemize it. We're gonna make it really simple. And I'm gonna walk you through how, as a business, with the right trading plan in place, you can not only reduce your risk as a trader, you can set yourself up with a really solid foundation. All right, now you may have seen my recap from yesterday. I locked up $45,000 in profit in one day trading. And you know what, today? I'm up another $42,000. That's nearly $90,000 in profit in two days. But I got a comment right here on YouTube, where someone said, Ross, it's a shame that you're gonna pay so much of that in taxes. Well, let me tell you something. When you set yourself up the right way, you won't be paying taxes. And that's exactly what I've done. So that profit right there will be 100% tax free. You're gonna wanna stay to the end of this episode because I imagine if you're currently trading, there's a lot of things you're not doing right now to take advantage of existing tax deductions and retirement planning that is encouraged for any small business owner. What doesn't matter if you're a plumber, you're an electrician, you're a woodworker, or you're a day trader. If you're not taking advantage of these tax incentives, you're honestly just leaving money on the table. So let's go ahead and jump into today's episode. Now, by the way, I just wanna say, I'm in a unique position here. Both is the head of warrior trading and also here producing all of this content on YouTube because I see the full spectrum of traders giving me their comments, telling me what's working and what's not working. And I can actually tell you that there are two primary causes of failure. When I look back at all the traders that I've ever seen who have failed, they fail for one out of the two reasons I'm about to share with you. The first is because they lack a strategy. By the end of this episode, that will not be you because I will be sharing a strategy with you and a trading plan that you can start implementing today. The second is they lack the discipline to follow the rules of the strategy. Now, that ball is in your court. So if you can bring the dedication, discipline, and drive to your trading, that is gonna set a really solid foundation. All right, so now let's jump into the slide deck here and you can see the P&L on my screen. I'm at $42,173.82 tax-free. And we're gonna look at N-U-Z-E as the number one stock that I traded today. This is the one that I did the best on. But first, we're gonna go full-screen here on this slide deck and we're gonna start today's class. How to start day trading as a business. These are some really important tax savings tips that I wish I had known sooner. Now, to give you a little bit of context of how I learned some of the things I'm gonna share with you, in 2017, I funded a tiny account with $583.15. I set up this account with the goal of seeing how quickly I could grow it. Now, as many of you know, I turned it into over $100,000 in 45 days, and by the end of the year, that account was at $335,000 in profit. I'll show you my audited statements here in just one second. Now, the reason that taxes became such an issue at that time was because when I set up that account, it was in a standard taxable account, which means, guess what, I had big tax bills. So I hired a really good accountant, which of course made a lot of sense because I'd made some really good money. This right here is my audited track record. This begins January 1st, 2017, when I funded my account, as you can see, right down here with $583. This goes through December 31st, 2023, and has a gross profit, sorry, net profit after fees and commissions of $10,719,000. So how much tax did I pay on all of that game? Well, I did pay some tax on it, but percentage-wise, my tax rate was very low because some of the strategies that I'm gonna share with you today. This is also helpful for you to see. So you know that the person you're learning from is credible and qualified to be talking about trading profits and what to do if you're starting to make some money. Even if you're not making money yet, it's important that you set yourself up the right way. So the topics that today's class we're gonna talk about how to adopt and write a trading plan, and I'll share mine with you, how to create your own business and incorporate, utilizing tax deductions and organizing your finances, how to set regular benchmarks for analyzing your performance and tax advantages of retirement savings accounts. This is stuff that you've got to start doing right now if you're not already doing it. So step one is writing the business plan. Now, I call it a business plan because look, if you're gonna open a coffee shop and you want to get a loan from a bank or investors, you would have to present a compelling business plan. It analyzes why this is a good investment, why this is gonna work, because listen, you're not gonna be the first person who's ever started a coffee shop, but that doesn't mean you can't run a very profitable coffee shop. Same with being a day trader. You won't be the first person who's tried to be a trader, but if you adopt the right trading plan, you have the right strategy, that's gonna be half the battle. Of course, the other half is the discipline and the dedication and the drive. We'll talk more about that in a moment. So when it comes to creating a trading plan, the business plan or trading plan interchangeable, it should be something you could share with a bank, an investor, with friends and family, and something you wanna take pride in. So what I want you to do is download my trading plan. It's gonna be linked right in the top of the comments and in the top of the description, you can download my trading plan and I'm gonna walk you through as we go through this class, how to modify it for your own use. So the perfect trading plan is gonna have 13 specific points. Now, if you need to pause this, to go ahead and download that, download it, you can print it out and you can listen to this episode while you've got the PDF either printed out or on your phone or whatever it is. I'm gonna highlight the five sort of most important aspects of a trading plan. A trading plan requires an overview of your strategy, including the time of day you're gonna trade, the type of stock that you're gonna be trading, your technical setups that you're gonna focus on, and obviously some parameters around daily risk and daily profit targets. So I'm gonna give you kind of a sample trading plan right here. Those of you who are already warrior pro members, you'll know that as part of my warrior pro curriculum, this is gonna be fairly deep into the slides here. It's on, let's see, slide 1605. This is where we get into me sharing all the details of my trading plan. Now, this is one of the, I would say most valuable components of the warrior pro curriculum. So I'm gonna share highlights of it, but I'm not gonna share all of it with you for free here. Those of you who have not already checked out my curriculum, you're welcome to do it. But I'm gonna give you the cliff notes version here in, on this slide. So a simple trading plan. Let's, I'm gonna give you one that I would use right now, if I was a beginner. And of course it's, I use it today, but in a little bit more advanced way. So the strategy overview is going to be momentum trading, the leading percentage gainers each day on the front side of the move. So if we stepped back here just for a moment, and we looked at our stock scanners, we would see the NU-ZE is up 196% with a float of 476,000 shares and 134 million shares of volume. To help put that in perspective for you guys, most stocks, when I'm trading, I focus on the imbalance between supply and demand. The greater the imbalance, the bigger the move. So the demand on this stock today was 134 million shares. And you know how many shares are available? Total supply is, what was it? 479,000 shares, right around there, 476,000. So this traded almost 260 times the amount of supply. That's how quickly and frantically traders were buying and selling the stock. Why? Because there was a news event. News was the catalyst that drove this stock higher. And certainly, there's no question that we also had sentiment. We had strong sentiment in the market today that increased the amount of volume and the amount of buying. And in fact, the relative volume on this stock today was over 6,000 times above average. That is a massive amount of relative volume. So this is a stock that had a huge amount of demand, a limited amount of supply, and the result was, well, it went up 196%. Actually, that's not true. It's up 196% right now. It went up about 300% and is pulled back off the highs. So currently, NUZE is sitting at $3 a share. It went to over $5 a share, and yesterday it was trading at about a dollar. So this is an incredible move. So without a doubt, that's the strategy that I focus on every single day. This is where I found the most success. Now, if you're watching this episode, hopefully you're already subscribed to the channel. Hopefully you tune in for my recaps all the time, and you're trading momentum just the same as I am. There's really two different strategies when it comes to active trading. You're either trend trading, which is trading momentum, trading the direction that the stock is going, or your counter-trend trading. And as I mentioned yesterday, counter-trend traders often find themselves with what we would call a big frown, and sometimes even some tears coming down their cheek, because it's really hard to guess when a stock is gonna reverse, and it's a lot easier just to ride the wave of momentum. And that's what I like to do. So I'm a momentum trader, focusing on trading the leading percentage gainers on the front side of the move, the time of day that I'm trading, 8 a.m. to 10 a.m., generally speaking. Now, if you really wanna get detailed here, I'm gonna start closer to 7 a.m., and I might stretch it to 11 a.m. in a hot market. The type of stock, well, let's just zoom in here on kind of the sweet spot, between one and $10, float of under 10 million shares, and up at least 25% on the day. Now, if you've watched some of my other episodes on stock selection, you may note that my traditional metrics for stock selection will vary. Traditionally, I say price between two and 20, I say relative volume of five, I say it's gotta be up at least 10%. I say it needs news, and it has to have a float of under 20 million shares. But just for this sample that I'm giving you right here, this simple trading plan, I'm gonna focus this in on the area of the market, where I feel like I see the highest degree of success. It doesn't mean that I won't venture outside that, but as a beginner trader, I feel like it makes more sense, like just to swing at really good pitches, than to start getting into the fancy stuff. So you wanna look for a quality, perfect setups. Will I trade something that's a B quality setup and carries a little bit more risk? Sure, I've got a lot of educated intuition under my belt for more than a decade of full time trading to take those risks. But as a beginner, you wanna really stay focused on what is generally giving most traders the highest accuracy, because here's the thing. When you have high accuracy, you know what it creates? Self-confidence. And being a confident trader is really important. I wanna see you have high confidence. When you have high confidence, that's when you start to experience what I call the positive feedback loop, where you've got nice winning trades, and then you feel comfortable taking bigger share size, and then you'd make more money. And so, you know, it's this feedback loop where you've got a longer stretch of consistency, and it's all going into a positive feedback loop. The opposite is when you get into a negative feedback loop, which those counter-trend traders experience, where they have low accuracy, so they have low accuracy, then they have low confidence, and then they lose money, and then they reduce share size, and they start spiraling down the drain. And that's not how you wanna trade. So, in this sample trading plan, or the simple trading plan, however you wanna think of it, we're gonna focus on these types of stocks, and the technical setup is going to be primarily trading the first pullback, which is gonna take the form of a bull flag, when the MACD is positive, and this is actually the lesson that I just taught yesterday. So, if we look just as a case in point on the trades here, let's see, from this morning on NUZE, so NUZE, right up here, I'm gonna drag this down, this is a stock where we actually got some really nice price action on the front side of the move. So, initially, the stock pops up right here, pulls back, pushes higher, it drops down, is below volume-weighted average price, and then it rips up right here, and this was the first really clean pullback. That was one of the best pullbacks of the whole day right there. It then squeezed from this level of 260, all the way up to almost $4 a share. If you got just that trade, and that was the only number one trade that you took all day, that would be a good day in my book. Now, I'm gonna talk about, as part of this trading plan, how often you should be trading, but let's first talk about Daily MAC's risk and profit target. So, for a beginner, a reasonable profit target is gonna be subjective. It's whatever you're comfortable with, but let's just say profit target is $500 a day with a max loss of 500. That means your weekly goal is the daily times three. So, the way I figure it is you're up 500 on Monday, 500 on Tuesday, oops, 500 on Wednesday, sorry, and then 500 on Thursday, and then on Friday, you lose 500. So, these two days cancel each other out, which means your weekly goal is the daily goal times three. So, that's a good way to think of it. So, $500 daily goal, so weekly goal is 1,500, so then daily goal, a monthly goal is about 6,000. So, then you're looking at about $72,000 per year. That's your goal. All right, that's a fine starting point. Where everyone starts somewhere and that's just fine. It does happen to be a bit less than I made in the last two days, but look, we all start somewhere, and I'm not trying to give you guys a hard time. I'm just giving myself a little pat on the back because it's been a while since I had two back-to-back days that were like this. All right, but that's why I'm teaching these classes. I said, any day that I doubled my daily goal, I will teach you guys a long class, so this is today's class. All right, so share size right here. Start with 1,000 shares, that's my opinion here for a $500 daily goal, until I'm up more than $200, which means 20 cents a share, right? So we do 1,000 shares times 20 cents equals $200. So that means if you find a $3 stock with 1,000 shares, you're in a position of $3,000. $3,000 in, you sell it at $320, you're locking up $200 a profit. And how much are you risking? Some people will say, Ross, you're risking $3,000 to make only 200 wrong, wrong again. You're actually only risking to stop down to 290. So you're risking 10 cents, which means you're risking $100. Because when you bought this at $3, you now own something of value. You don't have to hold it till it goes to zero. You could just sell it back on the open market when you decide you don't want it anymore. So I'm willing to risk 10 cents a share to make 20 cents a share. That's called a two to one profit to loss ratio. And with a two to one profit to loss ratio, you know how often you have to be right to be break even? 33%. 33% is your break even point, which means if you're right 50% of the time, or you're wrong half the time, you're still gonna be profitable. If you can get yourself to being right 65, 70% of time, you're gonna do really well. So I like to set the bar low, and you can set the bar low by having that type of profit to loss ratio. Once I'm up more than $200, then I'll increase my share size to 2,000 shares. The reason I start with smaller size is because each day, the time that I'm facing the most risk is from the moment I've taken my first trade until I'm green. Because on that first trade, when I'm at zero, if I end up taking a full size loss, like a full 10 cent loss with full size, I'm down 200 bucks. I do that one more time. I'm now down almost 500 on the day, right? So very quickly, your max loss creeps up on you. If you start with smaller size, you build a little bit of a cushion, and then once you've got a cushion, confidence, you start feeling like, I know what I'm doing today, I'm having a good day, leaning in, hitting the daily goal, and then cooling down. All right, so when it comes to how many trades a day that you should take, this is gonna lean into phase one of trading. Before I cover that, I wanna talk about some of my guardrails. In fact, in my book right here, How to Day Trade the Plain Truth, which some of you may have seen, I have a list of guardrails here, and these are sort of sprinkled through the book where I share a different guardrail, guardrail 11 right here, trade the market I'm in, not the market I wanna be in. So I wanna share a few of these guardrail highlights with you right here. I think of guardrails as being kind of like training wheels. They help keep you safe, but you know what, no one's gonna win the Tour de France with some training wheels on. Training wheels are really important as you're getting started, so you can build confidence without losing your front teeth, but at a certain point you need to take them off. So today I don't trade with training wheels, I trade fairly aggressively, but I do keep some guardrails in mind. I do set a max loss. A max loss is the most uncomfortable losing because what I know is that once I've lost more than this amount, I become emotionally compromised. Emotionally compromised means, my heart's pounding. I'm feeling the blood pressure pick up, I'm feeling stressed, my palms might be sweaty, I'm feeling angry. I'm now in a fight or flight state that was the result of experiencing a large loss. And now it's my primitive brain that's gonna do the thinking for me. And the quickest way to alleviate that discomfort is to have a big winner, which means I'm very likely to jump into another trade without using my logical thought process and instead just focusing, well on impulse, I don't wanna be an impulsive trader. I wanna be a tactical trader focusing on a quality setup. So once I cross this threshold of max loss, I have to walk away. I say max loss should be whatever your daily goal is. Cause you don't wanna lose more in one day than you can make. That's just my opinion. You could set your max loss how you'd like. But I think tighter is better. Stop if I have three losses of $200 each or bigger, which would basically put me down about 500 or a little over. However, this rule also applies if I've made 300 on the day and then I have three losses. Because although I may only be back to break even or just slightly red and not yet at the max loss, having three consecutive losses that feel sizable can again hurt self confidence and can create emotionally fueled trading. If I give back more than half of my profit in one day after crossing my daily goal, I've gotta stop. So if I cross, if my daily goal is 500 and I get myself up to 600 on the day and then I give back half of my profit and I'm sitting up 300, I gotta walk away with that 300 in my pocket because you know what? I'm gonna be starting to look at this glass as being half full. I had 600, I wanna get back to 600. Now if you start the day at zero and you make your way up to 300, the glass is gonna feel half full. Because you got yourself right to there. But when you make yourself to 600 and then drop back down, you know what it feels? Half empty. And this is when you start to get disappointed and you're no longer grateful for what you have because you're focusing on what you had. This is the time to step away. So a big part of these guardrails is about maintaining a head space where you can be trading at your peak. Because let's face it, trading is risky, it's difficult and you're really competing in the market. You're competing against other traders, but you're also competing against high frequency trading algorithms, hedge funds, some of the best traders in the world. So if you can't bring your best, then you really should step back and wait till the next day. So number four, I wanna be aggressive on the front side of the move and then abandon the stock completely when it fails to keep going up. I am ruthless about cutting my loss on a stock and moving on. I do not wanna keep trading something if it's not giving me the price action I'm looking for. That means I need to have an honest assessment of the current market sentiment, the state of the market. I have to have an honest assessment of my own emotional disposition today. And I have to try to always remember to hold a piece of my position until I get a final exit indicator. In the class on chapter 14, where we go over the trading plan, right in this area, this is where I talk about each one of those specific exit indicators. If I see this, I get out. If I see this, I get out. I break down exit indicators and entry indicators specifically in that chapter. And I wanna remind you guys that trading is to a certain extent about survive to your thrive. Keep your head above water, tread water, right? Small green days are good. So let's talk about how to create that track record of consistency because you know what? A business plan requires a track record. If you're gonna start a coffee shop, what kind of track record would I expect? If you came to me and said, Ross, I want you to invest in my coffee shop. I would probably be asking you how long you've been working in coffee shops. What's your experience? So if you want me to invest in your trading or you're gonna invest in your own trading, you need a track record. So when it comes to a trading plan, a track record has to be created by actually trading. You can't use my track record. While my track record is for the same strategy that I'm giving you, it's the way I've traded it and you shouldn't assume that your results will be the same as mine because I've been trading for a very long time. You have to adopt the strategy and prove that you have the discipline to follow the rules of the strategy. So you've gotta create your own historical data. Whether you do that in the simulator or with real money, ultimately is up to you. However, what I will say is that beginner traders should start in a simulator because you will make mistakes. Beginner traders always make mistakes and it's not a knock on you. It's just that's life. You'll make a silly mistake like you'll pull up your trading account and you mean to buy something with 500 shares and you type 5000. Well, make those mistakes in the simulator before you make them with real money. Doesn't that make sense, right? This is the idea is you wanna take it slow. You don't wanna get in over your head with real money because what I've seen happen to a lot of beginner traders is they'll fund an account with real money and they'll think, all right, well, I'm gonna set up, you know, a $25,000 account. And guess what? They learn that they get four times leverage. So now they've got $100,000 of buying power and they start jumping in and out of stocks and before you know it, this money, they could cut that in half. And so it's so much better. And then the worst thing is they justify continuing trading with real money because of the money they've lost. So now they don't wanna go switch to SIM because it's like, I'll switch to SIM once I recoup losses, but you won't recoup losses until you've developed a strategy that is consistent. This is the blessing and the curse of the market. I've set up a four, but I'll say it again for those tuning in for the first time. The curse is that you could spend years struggling to make just $10 a day. Like let's get real. That's 100 shares times 10 cents a share. That's 10 bucks. You're not asking to drive a Lamborghini or flying a private jet. You're not being greedy. Why is it so hard to make $10 a day consistently? Because to make money consistently, you need a consistent strategy and a track record. And that creates, of course, self-confidence. So once you're consistently making $10 a day, who would stop at $10 a day? I didn't. No one else would. No one who's become successful stops at $10 a day because then you realize the only difference between $10 a day and 100 is increasing my share size. The only difference between 100 and 1,000 is increasing my share size. And you start to scale up. Now there's no doubt that increasing share size does come with increasing the emotions that come with trading because you'll have bigger losses and learning how to handle things like slippage in the market. But nonetheless, I think it's always good to start in a simulator. And then once you've proven a track record in SIM, switch to real money. However, if you want to argue that you want to trade with real money because you want to begin experiencing the emotions and conditioning yourself to going through the ups and downs that comes with trading with real money, I think that's okay, but you should cap yourself to like 10 shares. And if you can't do that, then you don't deserve to trade with real money. You have to be able to cap yourself. I've had students, members at Warrior Trading who have done this really well. One of my students who is particularly notable, I can jump on here, let's see. So this is success stories here. So I'm thinking of Max. When he started trading, his parents, he didn't have the money to start to set up his real money account. So because of that, he just traded in the SIM because that's all that he had. And this built a really solid foundation for him, which he then brought to his parents and said, look, this is how I'm doing. And then they said, you know what? Okay, if this is something you're really serious about, we'll give you a chance to try it out. And he did and he's earned his million dollar badge at Warrior Trading. Now, I'll say right now that his results are not typical. And we don't track the typical result of every member at Warrior Trading because we're not a broker dealer. So I don't have access to broker statements, but we do let people voluntarily send in their broker statements if they want to verify and get a badge. And of course, we're really proud of Max. So let's talk about phase one. Whether you're gonna do phase one with real money or you're gonna do phase one in a simulator that's ultimately going to be your call. But phase one is about proof of concept. It's not about making $10,000 so you can pay bills. It's about proof of concept and building a solid foundation. So here's what I say. You've got the trading plan that you already downloaded here from this episode. If you didn't already download it, make sure you download it. You've got your trading plan and the goal is to take one trade per day for 10 days. One trade per day for the first 10 days. What you're gonna get from those 10 days are 10 trades. And what we wanna see is that your accuracy is a minimum of 60%, which means six out of 10 trades and six out of 10 days are green. We also wanna see that your profit loss ratio is a minimum of one to one, which means your winners and losers are at least of average value when they're averaged. So you've got four losers. Let's say they're $100 each. So you've got $400 in losers. You've got six winners. You've got $600 in the winners, right? So then on these trades, you've got $200 of net profit. And that's what we wanna see. This is where we're gonna start calculating in your metrics, figuring your profit loss ratio and your success rate. All right, so 101 to one, this would be target. A goal of course is to be at two to one, which would give you $1,200 of profit, $200 average winners versus $100 average losers. And then you're sitting with $800 of profit. But look, it takes time to get there. These are the numbers that you're gonna start working on. And what I want you to focus on is building that track record and building that consistency. If at the end of your first 10 days, your accuracy is lower than 50%. If you're net negative, you had a negative result. So well, first, let's talk about positive. So if you have a positive result, that's when you have six winners, accuracy is 60% and you've got a net profit. This tells me you've got something that's working. So this is where we'll move into phase two. But if you have a negative result, which means you've got more than four losses, or you have average losers are too big and you're net negative, then that's when you have to go back and either keep sim trading or go back to the sim if you switched to real money. This first phase, by the way, is after you've already spent a period of time really actively trading, this is when you're trying to test to see if you're ready to go live with real money and with legitimate share size. This is that proof of concept. So the first step, of course, is building months of experience trading in a simulator or with really small size with real money, just gaining a lot of experience, right? You're not gonna pick up a lot of experience at the rate of one trade a day. So during that first stage of trading, before you switch to getting ready to transition to real money, that's when you'll be trading much more frequently. This is that phase one right in the transition from sim to real money. So this is phase one. Now I asked during the last time I talked this class, some of our members at Warrior Trading to submit their calendar showing their progress on the one trade per day challenge. And I'll say the not everyone was as disciplined as others about keeping it to one trade, but I thought this was really great. So one trade, one trade, one trade. This is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11 days. There were two days that they took more trades, but the rest of it was really solid. And there's no doubt that this is a trader that is doing well. This is exactly what we like to see, right? Solid accuracy. In fact, it appears to be 100%, although it's possible that these could have been, there could have been one winner and one loser on these days. So certainly very high accuracy. This is another calendar of a trader who focused on one trade a day with small size. Couple days were two trades, right? And there's a couple of red days here. There's two red days, but they did it for a full month. They committed to doing it for a full month. And, you know, again, there's a few days where they did push it a little bit and that's gonna be to their discretion. You know, they'll have to be honest with themselves if that was emotional or that was logical to make those decisions. But nonetheless, this is a good month of trading. Here's another trader who is a bit more sporadic in their trading based on schedule and availability. But in any case, the days they were able to be here, they showed up, they traded, and they stayed focused on keeping it simple. This is another trader who is stepping up a little bit more. So if you've already done your first 10 days, then that's when you start to scale up a little bit more. You go once you've done 10 days of one trade a day and you've built consistency, you start increasing the number of trades and increasing the number of share size. You start being a little bit more aggressive, you just increase both of these slowly. And this is all part of your business plan or your trading plan. So once you get to this point here where you've built this track record, it's a no-brainer that you should be trading with real money. If you did all that in SIM, you know it's time to transition, you know it's time to go live. So once you're going live, you're trading with real money, this is when we get into step two, which is actually creating your business. So trading as a business, first step is the strategy and having the trading plan. And no doubt that is the most important step. But step two, as we get into really how to approach this like a real business is, well, creating your business. So you've got to create, and this is my opinion, I will say right now at the very beginning that I'm not a CPA and I'm not an attorney. So you should always consult with a local CPA and a tax attorney and, you know, a business attorney to make sure you're making good decisions that fit within your risk profile and what works for you. But I'm going to share with you here what I've done in my career. So what I did was I created a corporation. You could call it my name, investing, incorporated, whatever you want to call it, doesn't matter. You file articles of incorporation with your state. So for me, that was in the state of Vermont when I was getting started. And you apply for an employer identification number with the IRS, it's called the EIN. You then file an S-Corp election. This is form a 2553 with the IRS. And when you file an S-Corp election, what this means is that you avoid double taxation on the gains in the business. All the business income passes through to the shareholders. And presumably you are the sole shareholder. So what you've essentially done is you've created business, but that business by itself isn't gonna pay corporate taxes. And then you also have to pay income tax. All the profit from that business gets funneled down to you ultimately as the shareholder. What you then have to do is apply for mark to market accounting. This is form 3115. And this is important regardless of whether you're trading in a business account or your personal name, because this will exempt you from wash sales. Wash sales, if you've been trading for more than a year, you may have seen on your first 1099 from your broker that you had some exempt losses due to the wash sale rule. The wash sale rule says that if you sell a stock for a loss and you buy back a similar position within 30 days, you can't write off the loss that you took on the first trade, which is terrible. For an active trader, imagine, for instance, if you were trading one stock all year long, you would create a lot of wash sales. And so what most traders will do is they'll file for mark to market accounting, and then they notify the brokers, notify your brokers that you're a mark to market taxpayer. And once you do that, you'll no longer have wash sales on your 1099. This doesn't work retroactively. It works from today forward. So that's important. And mark to market accounting, you actually have to apply for it by April 15th of the tax year. So in order for it to work. So right now, if you apply today, it would work for next year, but not for this current year. So this is step one of incorporating as an S-corp and this is exactly what I did. What I then did was I opened my accounts. I opened a checking account and a brokerage account and I created a credit card in the name of the business with the company's EIN. These are three important steps. I create a QuickBooks account file and I track my expenses related to trading. And what I do is I make a shareholder contribution to the corporation for my starting balance. Okay, so I've got my personal account over here and then I've got the S-corp account over here. So I make a contribution of, let's just say, $25,000 as a $25,000 contribution from me into the S-corp. Now the S-corp can later repay me this amount. So it can give this as a distribution to me as a shareholder. And there's not a tax implication of doing that because this is a contribution that I made so it can get repaid at a later date. So now with $25,000 in my checking account, let's just say, let's call it 30 grand. We'll call it 30,000. You could do whatever amount, but let's just say 30,000. I'm now gonna set up a brokerage account. So this is gonna be my trading account over here. And I'm gonna move $25,000 of this money to the trading account. So this is my trading account where I'll be actively trading, which is now leaving me with $5,000 in my checking account. And of course, don't forget, we've got an American Express or whatever MasterCard Visa that you wanna set up. So what I then do is I start tracking all of my expenses related to trading. And this is so important. Let's look around for a second. We've got computer monitors, we've got computers, we've got a desk, we've got keyboards, we've got all of this stuff that's related to trading. These are all parts of the things that are necessary for me to produce this business income. And so what I wanna do, first of all, if you've already been trading for a while, you wanna get organized with taking an inventory of all the equipment you have and knowing what you paid for it. You wanna have receipts. So you wanna get very organized. If you're not already doing it, start doing it today. Now a lot of people say, oh, I don't really care, but listen, you're leaving money on the table, right? Penny's turns into dollars. So make sure you lock up your savings here. It has a real effect at the end of the year. So what I start doing is I track all of the, just like I said, computer equipment. So you've got your computer equipment, that's X amount of money. So this computer right here was a $5,000 computer, but let's say a laptop is $2,500. So you've got your laptop, you've got your desk, you've got your monitors, you start adding all of this up. And now this is the current equipment and inventory that's part of your trading business. So you as the shareholder essentially are contributing that equipment, which is of real value, into the business. Now the business can start depreciating that equipment over its useful life because it has a limited lifespan. Now some people will expense the equipment all in one year. That's gonna depend on the total cost of the equipment. But you can also be expensing things like your subscriptions. So let's say you're paying a monthly subscription for a newsfeed, you're paying a monthly subscription for a level two market data. You're paying for education. These are all expenses related to the business. Now trading is not by the way a hobby. You're not allowed to like create a business that just subsidizes a hobby. Like let's say you love model trains and you create a business where you're just, I don't know, you buy lots of trains and you create a train table in your basement, you get a little conductors hat, but it's a collectible conductors hat and you've got your pull ups and overs or whatever. So that's not gonna count, but trading is not a hobby. I mean, it could be I suppose that you trade as like a side hustle to something else, but it's not a hobby in the sense that you're just doing it for fun. People are trading with the goal of making money. So all of the tools, all the things that you buy are part of that business. Now, if you're trading from your home, what a lot of people will do is they'll dedicate a space for their home office and I do the same. Many people will do this. So there's different ways that you can do your home office deduction. What a lot of people will do is they'll create a rental agreement between your S-Corp and you. This rental agreement will state the amount of money that you pay per month in rent and the percentage of utilities that the S-Corp pays in order to have this rental space. This is sort of the cleanest way to do it is through a rental agreement. Now, this will create a little bit of income for you because the S-Corp is gonna start sending you like $1,000 a month or whatever it is for rental income. So that's gonna send you a little bit of money, but if you have a good accountant and I encourage you to get a good accountant, then what you'll do is you'll have depreciation that you'll write off on your side that'll help offset that rental income. And nonetheless, when you get rental income, even if you didn't take any depreciation against it, it's still gonna be less than taking a W-2 paycheck because you don't have social security and things like that that come out of it. However, running an S-Corp and running a business does mean that you have to have a payroll service. The good news is you can do this starting at $24 a month with QuickBooks, and I'm not an affiliate of QuickBooks, so use whoever you want, but you can set up a payroll service really cheap. And the way I would do it is to pay yourself based on a percentage of trading profit and then hold the rest of the profit inside the company account. If you gave yourself a salary of, like let's just say you gave yourself a generous salary of like $100,000 a year, you know with trading that there might be months where you're up 10 grand, and then there's a month where you make nothing. So ultimately, your salary is probably better that it's just a percentage of profit, that way it can fluctuate. And of course, if you have red months, that's not gonna work, but we're gonna talk about the red months in a second. So then once you've done all of your bookkeeping and you've tracked all your expenses at the end of the year, you now have all of the expenses that are related to the S Corp over on the S Corp side. You've got your credit card, you've got the receipts, you've got everything nicely organized. Personal, trading, it's separate. You don't have to go shuffling through stuff at the end of the year, it's already organized for you. If you do it as you go, it's that much easier. Now, even if you're not yet a profitable trader by establishing this clean separation between personal and trading, you're still organizing all your expenses because look, you know what? A lot of startups fail. A lot of startups fail. You could open a coffee shop and you fail, but all the money that you put in to setting up that coffee shop, right? If you spend $100,000 setting up a coffee shop, you put that money in and you can, and a lot of people will offset that against other income. That's how you get someone not to be political, but like Donald Trump, who ends up with a massive deduction that he carries forward for years and years because he had a huge loss. So the tax code allows you to do that. So if you, you know, I mean, it's just, is what it is. So if you're not taking advantage of that, this seems kind of silly, right? I mean, if the president, former president is gonna do it, you should too. I mean, you shouldn't say that about everything a former president does, but you get the idea. It's a standard practice to carry forward a loss. That's all it is. So step four, analyze performance. All right, so now you've got to be analyzing your metrics and measuring your performance. So during the time that the business is not profitable, you can still be utilizing your appropriate deductions and accounting for your expenses, and you should, because that way you know how much money you've put into this. Now, when it comes to analyzing metrics for trading, I'm using trader view. This is the software that I've been using for years and years. Let's see, I've got my trader view screen up here. So I started using this in 2016. So I actually have, let's see, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24. I have nine years of trading metrics in this software right here. This is year to date, $454,000 a year to date, which is also, which does not include my profit from today. So today it's gonna add about 10%, put me up around just under 500,000. And in fact, the last two days, nearly 90,000, have increased my year to date profit by like 20%. And that's the power and the importance of showing up every single day, because you just never know when you'll have a big day in the market. And I show up every single day. I mean, we can look at my overview and we can look at the calendar, but I don't miss days. Of course, these are days that haven't happened yet, but these are all the days that I showed up. And this is just, of course, this year. But nonetheless, what you wanna be doing is you wanna be analyzing your metrics. You wanna be looking at your profit to loss ratio, what your accuracy is. So average winners versus average losers, right here, average winners, 588, average losers, 508. Positive profit loss ratio, 64% accuracy, almost half a million dollars in profit. That's how it's done. And this is trading, what time of day? What price stock? Stocks between two and 20, predominantly. Stocks that are up at least 10% on the day. We'll get instrument. This all backs into the strategy that I'm sharing with you guys. Up 10% on the day right there. High relative volume right here. This is the strategy. This is the momentum strategy. So days and times, profit, mostly, I guess it looks like on Tuesday, but focusing, I did get a little bit of profit at 4 a.m. This is a trade on GameStop, but the rest is split pretty well between 7 a.m. and about 12 p.m. That's when I do the best. And that's all outlined in my small account strategy and my trading plan, which hopefully you guys have downloaded. So you want to analyze your performance. And then once you get to a point where you are a profitable trader. Okay, so this is a really big milestone. The first six months, the first year, the first two years, you may not make money. I didn't. I mean, I had gains and then I would give them back. So it's like two steps forward, two steps back. That's what it was like for me getting started and that's true for a lot of traders. But when you get to the point where you're making money, now we got to think a little bit more about how we've set this up as a corporation. So you've set up your S Corp. And one of the things that's important to know about an S Corp is that you do have to take a salary, which is why you need the payroll service. But like I said, super easy to set them up. It's like $24 a month. So you set up your payroll service and this is the salary that I had for a long time, $52,000 a year. I said it $52,000 a year. You know why? It's $1,000 a week. I just said, you know what? $52,000 that just keeps it simple, $1,000 a week. But actually, there's another reason why $52,000 is an important number. So when you set up your payroll service, what you can do, and again, you can do this with QuickBooks if you want, is you can set up a 401k. A 401k because hey, just because you don't work at a big fancy corporate company doesn't mean you can't have a 401k too. You can have a 401k. Small business owners can create solo 401ks. And that's exactly what I did. I create a solo 401k. So now, you know what the company gets to do? It gets to match your contributions. Now, if your boss is generous, maybe he'll give you a full match. A full match on your contribution, that's right. You could do that. Now it has to be fair, it has to be for all employees. I'm the only employee. Well, I guess that's the way it is. So you set up your full match for your 401k. So how much can you contribute to your 401k per year? The max that you're allowed to personally contribute is $23,000 per year. So $23,000 would be almost half of your wages. But remember, 401k is pre-tax. 401k is not tax-free. It's tax-deferred. What 401ks allow you to do is save money, tax-deferred until you retire. But when you start taking that money out, you'll pay income tax on it. And so if you put away a million, well, let's just say you put away $5,000 and it grows to 500,000, let's just say, then you're gonna end up paying income tax on 500 grand. So it actually works out well for the IRS because you defer tax on the 5,000, but then you pay tax on the 500,000 later. So you could choose not to do a 401k at all, but for most people, it makes sense to grow money right now, tax-free, because it'll actually grow faster than if you take profit out for capital gains each year. So it grows faster if it's growing without tax. So what you end up doing in this scenario is you max your contribution at 23,000. Now the company is also gonna match you 23,000 with a full match. So you do your contribution, the company does this, and then the company can pay up to 25% of all the wages in profit sharing. So that's $13,000, which brings you up to $69,000 per year in 401k contributions. And this is the maximum contribution amount. If you did that for 10 years, we're talking about a lot of money, and you also don't want to forget about the compound interest that starts on year one. So if you actually put this into a compound interest calculator, you start with $69,000 a year, and you're doing annual contributions. Of course, they're going in monthly. This account over the course of 10 years depends on what interest rate you apply it to, but you put it in a nice interest rate, 8%, 10%. You're gonna grow this to $1.2, $1.5 million. We'll just put $1.3 million for right now. This is gonna be growing. And here's the thing that's really interesting. If you're making enough money trading that you're covering your cost of living, then you get to a point where it's like, if I make more money, I'm just gonna be paying a lot of tax. And I'm gonna move myself up into a higher income bracket. So you know what a lot of people will do is they'll create an IRA account. So annual IRAs, you should max your contribution. Currently, you can contribute $6,500 to a Roth IRA per year. Now, a Roth IRA contribution is post tax. And just so you know, if you're doing a Roth IRA, there is an income limit. But if you're above the income limit, you do a traditional IRA, and then you do a conversion to a Roth. And what you do is you pay income tax on $6,500. So you pay income tax on $6,500, and then you've got a Roth with 6,500. This is what I did. And what I actually did was three years of contributions. Now, your Roth contributions have to be from earned income. So you do your three years of Roth contributions. And remember, you're taking a salary here. So you take some of your salary, you do the contribution. I did $18,000 in total contributions. And my Roth IRA right now is valued at over $6.5 million. That's because I was actively trading in the Roth IRA account. So all of the profit from yesterday, all of the profit from today. So you see today, I'm up 42,000. Yesterday, I was up 45,000. In fact, 100% of the profit from this year is completely tax-free. I am not trading in a taxable account. I've gotten to the point where I'm only trading in my tax-free account. And here's the thing that's pretty cool. This $6.5 million right now can produce $300,000 per year in fixed income at 5%. And I don't have to do anything. That's almost $30,000 a month. And it's because I was able to grow it and build it to this level. Now I did that through active day trading. And of course, I was able to grow this account the most during sort of 2020, 2021, into 2022. That was the window where I really grew at the fastest. So when I took that $583, I turned it into 10 million, while 6.5 million of that was completely tax-free. And the remaining $3.5 million, well, I paid tax on that and I paid a good, a good percentage of tax on it. I paid well over a million and a half dollars, probably close to 1.7 million in income tax on this. And that's when my accountant said, Russ, you got to get smart. This is not the way to do it. So I learned, I mean, I paid a lot of tax and I learned some mistakes that, well, I learned some things that I wasn't doing that I could have done. And that's why I really want to share these things with you. So you can be taking advantage of these opportunities. You should be saving for retirement. That's good. I mean, it's good for you. Of course, it's good for the economy. In the long run, it's good for the IRS because you'll take those distributions that are taxable in the 401K. So when you're producing excess profits, that's when it's time to start making smart tax decisions. So I began actively trading in my Roth IRA. As I said, personally grew up from 18,000 with three contributions to 6.5 million. And I started looking for residential real estate investments. You get a 27 and a half year depreciation schedule and you don't have, you could do that in a Roth IRA. But now your S Corp, my investing company, it's more than just trading. Now you're starting to look for real estate. And here's the cool thing with real estate. You buy a piece of real estate, you've got 27 and a half years of depreciation. So let's just say you buy a $2.7 million piece of real estate. Of course, you do 25% down. So you're doing like, you know, 700,000, whatever, around 700,000 down payment. So you put down 700 grand on this, you finance the rest, you let your tenants pay the mortgage. And now you've got $100,000 per year of depreciation on this. You're depreciating 27, let's see. So, no, yeah, $100,000 a year. Yeah, so you're depreciating this over 27 years. All right. So I'm pretty sure that's right. I'm pretty sure so. Anyways, I might be, I'm doing this on the back of the napkin. You get the idea. So you're depreciating this each year and that's offsetting your rental income. Now, of course, with a $2.7 million property, you'd like to be pulling, I mean, 10% would be amazing. You're probably not gonna be pulling $270,000 a year rental income, but even if you're pulling only $130,000 a year rental income, you've got this depreciation that's offsetting that income. And then you've got your actual payments going to upkeep of the property and everything else. So this is where you start growing your portfolio and it begins with trading. That's how it was for me. It started with trading. And now I've got this Roth IRA. I've got real estate investments and I'm growing. And for me, the whole idea was that I would get to a point where I was making more each month in income from dividends and rental income than I could even make trading. Because let's think about this for a second. You start really scaling up your trading. You start scaling up your investments in real estate to the point where you've got multiple properties. You've got 30, 40 different units and you're generating this passive income. That's where things really get to the next level. And real estate is a big one because again, the tax incentives of investing in real estate that you get with depreciation. Now, no one would buy stock with 25% down, right? You're not gonna buy $2.7 million at Apple stock with 25% down, that'd be crazy. But you'll do it all day long with a real estate property that's got a 10% cap rate. And this is the way you scale your business. You grow the business, you start with trading because that's the way that for me, I was able to produce cash flow as quickly as possible. And then I expand it to the next thing. Now, for me, building out my scanners, this was a real smart thing in my opinion because I could spend money building out this software that we haven't wore your trading. Or if I kept the money, well, I'd pay almost 50% of income tax. So it's like, you know what, I should start reinvesting. You start reinvesting. You build another business. You build another business. You build another business. So you keep taking that cash flow and you roll it into the next business. And that's how you scale up. But you've gotta start somewhere. I hope that this episode here inspires you. I'll remind you that my results and my experience is not typical, but I do hope that you've enjoyed this episode. Hit that thumbs up, subscribe to the channel, and make sure if you didn't already download my trading plan that you downloaded, there'll be a link pinned to the top of the comments, linked in the description. You'll see that just down below. And if you wanna try a two-week trial of our software that I've been building over the last seven years, please check it out. I think you guys will really enjoy it. This is the software that I'm using every single day to find stocks to trade, to find really, ultimately, these big momentum names. So today we got these great trades on NU-Z-E. This gave me $27,000 a profit. And I was done trading by 10 a.m. today. It was all trading. The front side of this move right here, before the MACD crossed over, aggressive on the front side, abandoning it completely when it's no longer proving itself, it's no longer holding up. This is the strategy. Today, an exceptionally good day, green, pretty much across the board. Had a couple of stocks I was read on, but in total, followed the rules of the strategy, locked up profit, and I lived to trade another day. Now as I come in tomorrow, tomorrow's a brand new day. I'll start, as always, with small share size until I break that first profit target, and once I'm over that level, I'll increase share size, I'll get aggressive. If the market calls for me to step up to the plate, I'm gonna step up to the plate, but if the market's cool, I'll slow down too. You gotta trade the market you're in. Thanks as always for tuning in, and I'll see you guys for the next episode real soon.