# 60. Master the Dip Trading Strategy (Step-by-Step Guide)
# id=ORWJzImSTdE (whisper base.en)

In today's episode, I'm going to teach a variation of my momentum trading strategy where I focus exclusively on buying dips. That is, I wait for the price to flush and when other traders are panic selling, I am buying that dip and looking for a squeeze back through high a day. This is a strategy that for me can be very profitable and has a fantastic profit to loss ratio. The reason is because when I'm getting in, I try to buy really close to support, which means I've got a very tight stop. My max loss is like right there and if we get that curl back up, the profit loss ratio can be three to one, four to one, five to one, it could be fantastic. And today we've got some case studies of some amazing trades that I took on a stock that went up over 400% on news. This is incredible. But here's something I'll tell you, a lot of beginner traders struggle with buying the dip and in fact, they have an expression that's called trying to catch a falling knife. You try to catch a falling knife and you're going to get cut. So a lot of beginner traders will lose money trying to buy dips because they don't have a set of rules that they follow. So what I'm going to do in today's episode is I'm going to share with you the rules that I use that help me understand when to buy the dip and when to sit on the sidelines and wait for a better opportunity. Now let's go ahead and jump into the screen share. You're going to see a stock on here. Now, whether or not you're trading stocks, forex futures, you're trading commodities, it doesn't matter because the philosophy here and the concept is the same. We're looking to capitalize on momentary imbalances where we get that flush and then the move back up. What's important, however, is that you're trading something that is trending, trading something going sideways that just happens to flush is not going to work. I need to trade something that is moving up. And when it's moving up strongly, those momentary dips of panic can be excellent buying opportunities. So here we have SNGX, which is just the stock that we'll use in our case study for today. And in fact, I traded it quite well. I peaked at about $17,900 on this stock today. I've got my live trading archives that we're going to go over. This is going to break down for you. Each of the trades that I was taking as I was making my profit on the way up, and a number of these were really awesome dip trades, so it's going to be a really good case study. And we're also going to go ahead and jump into the slide deck here. This is an excerpt I'll share with you a couple of slides here from my Warrior Pro curriculum. What you'll know for students that have already gone through this curriculum is that a lot of my strategy is based around dip trading. Dip trading. You'll see we've got the dip strategy right here, buying into or out of halts is also based on buying dips. We call it the dip and the rip. The reason is because if we think big picture about what's happening, let's jump onto the whiteboard. We've got the price moving up, right? But the price never goes straight up or like this. And variably, the price moves in waves. We get these waves up. And so if you can buy the bottom of a wave, this right here is a great entry near support for the next leg up, the next step up. Now one of the challenges that a lot of beginner traders will face is understanding whether or not we're still sort of stair stepping up, so to speak, or if we're now on the backside of the move and we're coming back down, I'm going to help you differentiate the two in today's episode. So let's go ahead and get started. I'm going to jump onto the slide deck here and I'm going to begin with this excerpt from chapter eight of momentum trading strategy course. This is specifically on chapter eight, set up eight, the dip by. All right. So we'll go full screen on this here and I'll do presenter view. All right. So this is a big slide deck, by the way. This has, this is on slide nine hundred and five of nearly 2000 slides right now. So dip buys is when I'm buying on a flush, which some people call a washout or a panic cell. This is specifically when we have the price generally trending up, but then we get that momentary. I sometimes call it a jackknife. We get that kind of drop like that. Now many of you have been in a trade right here long and then suddenly you're in this and you're selling down here. In fact, you're doing the exact opposite of what I'm going to show you in this episode. This is where I want to be buying right here and then I'll add to it as it comes back up here because what often happens with these drops is we get that panic flush and then we come all the way back up and that's the beginning of the next wave. So for me, my first entry into doing real dip trades was in March of 2020 when the stock market dropped thirty five percent. It was during the COVID pandemic and what happened was I started buying stocks that were about to be halted going down or I would buy just after several halts down if they showed strength. And I was noticing some incredibly huge whips that created almost instant winners. So for those of you who are familiar with circuit breaker halts, the way these work is when a stock is trading in its normal range here, there are circuit breakers that are 10 percent above and 10 percent below the current price and if the stock drops 10 percent in less than five minutes, what will typically happen is it'll get halted on circuit breaker. Now I could get into more detail about exactly how these price bands are calculated, but for the sake of argument right now, we'll just say that they're 10 percent away from the current price. So if a stock selling drops down and halts, it'll be halted for a period of five minutes. So we have a resting period and then trading will resume and if it halts down a second time, it goes down another 10 percent boy, I know it's on that side, goes down another 10 percent then what we end up having sometimes are multiple halts down. But what I learned was that typically after the second halt down, you want to start looking for a bounce back up because now this is exaggerated. It's almost like thinking of a rubber band that's getting stretched out and when it gets really stretched out, we snap back. And so that snap comes in the form of buying, we'll see it on the level two on the time and sales and we get that squeeze back up typically into a halt up. And now we're halted up for five minutes and typically when you halt up, you open higher and then move even higher. When you halt down, you open lower and move even lower. So after two or three halts up, we look for another halt down and in fact, we've had stocks that have been so volatile, we're just trading halts. We had a stock a couple of weeks ago that halted 41 times in one day. It kept getting halted because it was so volatile, which is kind of nuts. But in any case, that was the origin of this strategy, recognizing that sometimes after several halts down, we were getting these really big bounces. And so I realized that this is kind of similar to what we see on some of these charts. So I'm going to show you an example. Let's see, just today, I'll pull up this chart here and I bet we're going to be able to go back in here and we'll find it. We'll find a nice little dip somewhere in here. So this one, for instance, you know, that's kind of a big flush. This one right here, that's another big flush. Now these, this one flushes down and it pretty much immediately bounces back up. This flushes down immediately bounces back up, flushes down and immediately bounces back up. So while there are people that are panic selling, I would say that this is becoming a level of support, right? So I would say there's support right here. In other words, people are buying right into this area and there's demand because every time it comes down to there, it pops back up. In fact, look at this. Here we halted up, we dip down and then we rip back up. The low is the bottom of this candle. We go from 6A to all the way up to 840. So these are all examples of dips. You see these low bottoming tails. So these are opportunities to be buying and catching a spring back up. But clearly, some of these are working better than others, right? Some are just continuing low, continuing lower. Others are pushing a lot higher. That's a nice dip right there. That one makes way for a move back to the new high, right? So that's the type of dip that we really like. This on the other hand dips, it does bounce back up, but then it kind of goes sideways. It doesn't get back to the highs. So how do we sort of differentiate the two types of setups? All right. Let's jump back into the slide deck. This is where we're going to learn. So a panic sell off dip by setup can occur while the stock is extremely strong in total. It's very strong, but it has a momentary bit of panic where suddenly people bail out and this is going to happen, especially on a stock that's up, oh, I don't know, 400% on the day, right? When you have a stock that's up this much on the day, you're going to have some candles like that. Those are created through a combination of people bailing out who have perhaps been holding for hours and are just taking profit and it could also be short sellers hitting the bid, doing what's called a bear raid. So a bear raid is a tactic that short sellers will use where they sell aggressively hitting the market. They try to get the stock to flush and they try to get people to stop out. When people stop out, more sell orders are sent to the market, which creates that sort of cascade effect where you get that panic sell off. Now in fact, that can go all the way to a halt down and prior to circuit breaker halts, we would actually have what we're called flash crashes where the waterfall would it would just start executing seller after seller after sell order and we would have a 70% drop and then it would bounce right back up, which obviously is unstable. Price action and that's why regulators came in and said we've got to slow this down and create these halt levels because the high frequency trading algorithms are actually making these flushes worse. So understanding how these algorithms work will help you in your trading and I'll talk about them a little bit, I think as we go through this class, but what we're looking for is that momentary dip, that momentary little panic. So it can occur because an individual sends a market order or a marketable order for a huge position, it can happen because of the high frequency trading algorithms, it can happen from a bear raid. So there's different causes and we won't always or probably ever know exactly the cause of a particular flush, but nonetheless, when it's happening, that's when I begin to look for a dip. Now I think it's worth separating the different types of dips. So we have what I would call a perhaps small dip and then we have a huge dip. Alright, so these are both valid. We're going to start here because this is an easier place for a beginner to get started. So for a small dip, we're going to picture that the price is moving up pretty nicely right here. It pulls back for a moment, kind of like this and it dips down here like this and rather than waiting for the first candle to make a new high, which is what we're, this is the pattern we're expecting right here and you're going to buy right down here. That's what I'm doing in this small dip strategy setup. So rather than waiting for the confirmation and taking my first entry here, I'm taking a starter down here or perhaps in here and then I'm adding to the position here. So rather than having a cost basis up here, my cost basis is going to be down a little bit lower. Now you might not think, well, what's the difference between here and here? You know, either way. But if we're going to be fair, our stop is always going to be at the low of the pullback. So the tighter we can get our stop, the better the risk to reward ratio. So if this is a three cent stop and the profit target is a retest of high a day and that's 30 cents away, we've got a 10 to one profit loss ratio. In fact, you only need to be right on that trade 20% of the time in order to be a profitable trader. Very profitable. And if you're right on this setup, 50%, 60%, 70% of time, now you're going to do really, really well because you've got your risk so well in check. Now the second is the huge dip. So this is where, you know, we'll see something kind of moving up like this. It pulls back, you know, easy, go lucky, whatever. It pops up here, oops, where's this runaway pen? It goes up here like this. Just let's say, for instance, and then it does one of these huge drop, right? So suddenly you get this massive drop and it could be a red candle, you know, it's obviously a red candle. It doesn't have to have a huge bottoming tail. It could be just a huge red candle just like this and the whole thing is solid red. So this is a huge dip is characterized by a red candle that is far bigger than any of the other candles that you've seen so far. It's going to be one of the top 10 biggest candles of the day. So when you're looking at the chart, it's kind of easy to differentiate what would be, at least in my opinion, a small dip versus a huge dip. So that right there, that looks like a pretty huge dip. That looks like a pretty huge dip. These look like pretty big dips right here, okay? This area in here, it's a little bit of a smaller dip. This area in here, a little bit of a smaller dip, you know, I mean, at the time they might have been felt pretty big, but for the most part, you could visually see which are bigger and which are smaller. Now I'm actually going to show you all of my trades from today. So I'm finishing the day here, $12,796.34 and it's a good day, but I was up close to $18,000 and I gave back a little profit off the top and you know what's interesting is I actually gave back profit not on dip trades, but on just standard run of the mill breakout trades that just happened to not work. Now my goal is always to be very transparent with you, to show you what does work, to show you what doesn't work in total. There's no question that trading momentum and breakouts works, but there will just be days where for whatever reason, dip trades work a lot better than breakout trades or vice versa. So you have to be able to kind of adapt to the market that you're in. Okay. So now let's jump back onto the slides here and talk a little bit more about the entry. So I mentioned here that wild dip trades have been a great addition to my strategy. I remind everyone that when timed wrong, they can also produce really big losses as you're buying right into a sell off. So the ultimate question is how to determine when to buy and when to wait. I think that getting really good at dip trading requires a degree of educated intuition and an ability to read the tape, the time and sales and to see the level two and to really be connected with it. So I don't think dip trading is probably a good beginner strategy for like your very first strategy. I would say standard momentum trading of actually waiting for the confirmation of that first Campbell making a new high makes a lot more sense is easier to visualize is easier to understand. But once you've mastered this standard setup, which I would call my micro pullback strategy, then it's time to take it up another notch. Now if you want to download a PDF that has the rules of my micro pullback strategy and also has my small account strategy built into it. It's a big collection of my PDFs. I'll put a link down in the description so you can download that for those of you guys that really want to get good at dip trading, I would encourage you to do a two week trial at warrior trading and I'll put a link in the description for that as well. The reason is during your two week trial, you'll be able to listen to my audio video broadcast and you'll have the benefit of being able to sort of piggyback off my commentary off of my educated intuition. As always, my results are typical, but the really important thing is that you're learning from someone who's proven profitable and dip trading is a lot easier to show you and for you to learn in that classroom setting where we're watching the market in real time. Now fortunately today, we do have my live trades from this morning. So we're going to refer to those, and of course those of you guys that are doing a two week trial already would have been able to watch these live. So we're going to look at, just to get oriented here, we're looking at SNGX and SNGX, I'll just pull this up on my chart real quick here. So this is a stock by the way today that did have breaking news. So if we pull up the news window here, we could scroll down and we would see that this does have breaking news. It came out at 7.30 AM and basically immediately the stock started squeezing up. So they've got a headline here. This is a US company, late stage bio pharmaceutical company. So it's not Chinese stock, which is an area where we are a little bit cautious. This is a, oh, and there you go. It's actually making even a new high here as we speak. That's great to see. I love seeing that. So now it's up, let's see a high of 535%, that's fantastic, breaking through the 200 moving average on the daily chart. Okay. So, so SNGX, the thing here is that when it first started squeezing, what I knew about it was that the float was less than a million shares and it was moving fast. I was like, okay, this is definitely the type of stock that I want to pay close attention to. All right. So if we jump into the live trading archive here, let's see, we're going to start with one of the small dip trades. So we're going to start with something a little bit more moderate and then I'll, we'll get into the stuff that's more complicated. So the level two for SNGX is, is right here. This is our level two window. And this is actually the time and sales for it. So the time and sales starts at the top and goes down. I will end up moving SNGX to this position. Usually, this is where I have the two stocks that I'm watching the most closely, but just in this case, today I left it in, in this bottom window for the beginning of the day. So, so SNGX here has squeezed up right in this area. And as it's pushed higher, let's see right here, we dipped down. So you see how we had this hive about four, 22 and we pulled back, we climbed back up, we dropped down, we popped up and then right here, we just dipped down. Now something that is important to note is that the position of the price right now is very close to what? It's very close to a half dollar and a whole dollar. So one of the places that I always like taking an entry is when we're near the half dollar or the whole dollar. So the best dips are when I'm already watching the stock and what seems like in a flash, it drops 50 cents or a dollar a share to a half dollar or a whole dollar. Because what we know is that a lot of these stocks will trade with a great deal of respect for half dollars and whole dollars. That's where the orders tend to get stacked up. Buyers are buying at the whole dollar and half dollar sellers are selling there. And so the way I'm looking at this is I want to take an entry. I watch it right here. I'm watching the level two, $3.99, do you see how it just showed $3.99 on the bid? Showed $3.99 on the bid and $4.02 on the offer, $3.99 and I'm buying right here off of support. So with an entry right there, I'm in at $4.03 and my stop on this basically is $3.99. Now whether or not I would get out at $3.99 without a little bit of slippage, it's hard to say. I might get a little bit of slippage, but I'm in at the 403 average and my stop is basically if this breaks under four and isn't able to get right back above four. So I have a four or five cents stop on this. With 6,000 shares, I'm risking $300 to $400. Now again, it's possible that when I press the sell button, I could get some slippage on my exit, which is the difference between where I want to get filled and where I actually get filled and that could make the loss a little bit bigger. But I'm still in very close to support and I'm in right above the whole dollar of four. What's my price target? What's my goal? 420. Okay. So that's 20 cents a share while 17 cents a share. That's still a pretty good risk to reward ratio. Now in this case, this stock was very interesting because as it would come up to the highs, look at this flash and still doing it even to even right now as we just saw on the side chart, how it popped up to $14 a share and it did it basically in one candle that just kind of spikes up. So this has been putting in these spikes like this kind of all day, which has been really impressive. And I mean, honestly, I love seeing that. So it spikes and instantly look at this, I'm up $1,915 on this trade. I'm still holding the full position. We've got 37 on the offer. So that increases my profit on the day from $4,500 and I'll end up taking some profit up in this area and I end up getting myself up to $6,500. So what you're going to notice is that a lot of these dip trades are going to correspond to half dollars and whole dollars. So $4, 455, et cetera. So when I'm watching this pattern forming, this is our standard micro pullback pattern also known as a bull flag. We get several green candles up, a couple candles of pullback, but instead of waiting for that first candle to make a new high, if I notice it's pulling back and it's right around a psychological area, I can take a dip as a starter right there. So I call that a dip trade because I'm buying off of this support level with the expectation that it's immediately going to reclaim that level. Now, of course, if it doesn't, I'll get out very quickly. But if it does, then I'm in the driver's seat and I can add to the position, then we still get that standard breakout and I can add to it as if I'm only doing the breakout trade. So I still take that trade. So in other words, I'm taking multiple setups at the same time. I'm buying the dip. I'm adding on the breakout, adding perhaps into the next half dollar and if this starts to go parabolic up to five, then I've got a great entry down here from a 403 starter or in this case, if it stalls out at, you know, whatever, 37 or 38, that's fine too. It's still a green trade. Now, let's look at an example of a huge dip. OK, so these are definitely going to be a little bit more complex for beginner traders to get their head around. So we're going to watch here. This is coming into the open. So coming into the open, I'm watching SNGX and I'm really curious to see how it trades. Now, as you can see, it started to pull back a little bit as we've gotten closer to the opening bell. So right now, let's see, we'll just zoom this forward. Just a, let's see, 30 seconds, maybe, not a private enough. So we're going to get, oops, let's see, we got to back up here. So we're going to get right to the open. There it is. So that's the open. So we're going to back up. OK, so, so this is the, we're, so the market's about to open right here. So we're now officially open and I'm looking for a possible dip. So watching the tape and we're now on on this level two right up here. So watching the tape, what this is the tape, obviously seeing a lot of red going through and I'm waiting for that dip. So what we're going to see here is 44 on the ask, 36 on the ask. So see how a seller has come down here and look at how stacked it is. We've got a big seller here at 36, but I look at that and I'm thinking, this thing just dumped basically 30 cents like that. Now I'm seeing a little green on the tape. If this seller gets bought up, where do you think we're going to go? We're probably going to spring right back to where we were, which is 660. So when I see that green coming in right down here, boom, starter, look at that, look at that. That's like picture perfect. The second I'm getting in there. I'm getting in and now we're right back to 65. That is such a fast dip trade. Now on this one, it's sold off a little bit more. The entry, it was above $6, of course, but we were kind of in between because I was in right at 635, which is kind of right in between. And I started to buy and, you know, what I think probably happened on this. So you've got a sell order right here. Sell order right here. My order is at 37 is at 670. It's a limit order. So it's got a high offset just because that's where I left it. Now I pressed the buy button and I got filled. Some of these shares were mine, but I also for sure, for sure got massive slippage. Cause let's look at this for a second. One of my orders is filling 2000 shares at 620. And the other is filling at 650. I mean, I see a few orders went through at 650, but I don't even like my order maybe hasn't gone through the tape yet. But that's kind of like 30 cents a slippage. That's $600 a slippage. I should have had the full 4,000 shares down there at 20. Cause I pressed the buy button when it was at 20. But somehow, and this is what the thing, this is the thing. The way the algorithms work is when they see those orders come in, sometimes they'll just move the price right out of the way so you get a bad fill. So anyways, it got a little bit of a bad fill in the second part of that order. It's now at 46, 54 on the offer, 55, 65. And there I take half off the table at 61. All right. So taking a little profit there. And this now puts me up over 17,000 on the day, taking a little more profit at 55 and still holding a thousand shares left of that position. Now we're about to see another fairly dramatic drop here in just a second. So, so let's watch this. So we, we sort of creep back up to 660, 675. And then all of a sudden the bottom is going to fall out. And you don't really see it coming. I'm sure there are people that are buying in this area looking for that trade to the next level, but look at this drop. See how fast that just dropped? What do I do? I buy. Now, unfortunately, I wasn't very quick to press my buy button and I pressed the button that I have for a small order for 250 shares. That's great when I'm trading a stock like GameStop. But on this one, I should have bought 2,500. In any case, it's fine. So I'm in at 609 and I'm already up 10 cents off the bid off off my entry. So let's back that up and I'll just show you that drop again. So you can see the candle formation. So basically all of a sudden you get this capitulation, you get this bail out where people start selling. What does the algorithm do? It moves out of the way and all these people get a ton of slippage. And now they're filling at 625, 610. They're bailing out. They're getting terrible fills on market orders. And now I see a moment of pause and a little bit of green going through the level two, the tape. So when I see that, I think this is a good spot to buy with a stop at six. So now I'm getting in with a stop at $6 and that makes sense. So again, that's that entry where I'm getting in right with my stop at the basically because we, in this case, we flushed, you know, it's the numbers are different, but basically all the way down here. So buying off of that, that whole dollar. Actually, we went from 80 all the way down to like here. So buying that dip here and then looking for that spring back up. Now two things can happen. Well, I guess three things could happen in this scenario. When you take a dip trade like this, scenario number one is it bounces not at all. You get in at 609 and it's sideways. So if that happens, if you get in, you get this drop and it's going sideways right here, that is a bear flag for the next leg down. So you don't want to be holding right there if it's just going sideways. That's not good. So if it's just going sideways, that's bad scenario. Number two, you could get in and you basically got in in the middle of the move and it keeps dropping. However, if you waited to see green on the tape, like I did at 609, that shouldn't be a problem. So we're going to start writing down the rules for this strategy. Where's my eraser? So rule number one, the rules for dip trading. Okay. So number one, we need volatility and basically, in other words, volume, sorry, volume and volatility, which means the price should be up probably 30% or more on high relative volume, HRV, high relative volume. Number two, so this is based on stock selection, right? The type of stock we're trading. Now, again, I'm trading stock, but you could apply this if you're trading cryptocurrency, you're trading 4X pairs, you're trading futures. That's fine. Are you trading large caps? If you see a flash drop, that's often a buying opportunity. As long as we check one thing, which is going to be in these rules. So number two, we want to make sure we want to try, look for entries near half and whole dollars. All right. So this is always my preference because A, we're buying support. Buying support, which can be ascending or descending resistance levels or ascending or descending or descending or it can be horizontal, horizontal. All right. And then see the half and whole dollars. So we want to buy at those levels. Number three, we want to make sure when we're looking for a dip trade that we're not going to be in a halt down. So halt risk, we'll talk about that in just a second. Okay. So if we go back here and we look at SNGX, let's back this up for one second. So the halt levels on this are actually 20% above the current price. These are wide halt bands because the stock on the previous day was trading between 75 cents a share and $3. So a halt bands warrior. So I'm going to grab this blog here that you'd be able to see. So the halt down on this is at 521. So 521 is LULD limit up limit down. Halt up is at 782. So I'm not worried about getting caught in a halt on this. This is a, this is an article here, warriortrain.com slash circuit breaker halts. You could also search it if you're on our website. But this goes over the halt bands and how they work. I've got some videos on it on YouTube as well, if you want to watch those. So this, it, the reason I don't want to be caught in a halt is because it's going to stop trading for a period of at least five minutes. And during that period, news could come out or I could find out that the reason it dropped was because we have breaking news that's bad. And then the price is going to resume lower and I will have effectively caught a falling knife. So I have to be careful about the halt levels. The fact that this had the halt level further away when it dropped here, I wasn't worried about getting caught in a halt down. I was getting in at 609 right above $6 and I knew I could turn around and stop out at six. If I saw that, for example, the halt level was 603. I probably wouldn't have taken this trade because I would know that a little bit more panic selling red on the tape and it's going to be halted down. And I'm probably going to be stuck. And then I'm looking at a, you know, halt down, open, lower and, you know, if there's bad news, it could go down even more. And that would be a problem. So I want to really be careful and mindful of that. Now, let's see. I think I've got another, um, another drop that we're going to jump forward to here. So let's move forward a couple of minutes. We've got another big drop that we can look at here. This one's around 44. This one's even bigger. So I know I laugh just because they're so ridiculous. Um, they're abusing retail traders like us. So, okay, so first we get that drop and then the price whips back up and it goes all the way up to over $7 a share, which is impressive. Now we do have a couple of issues. You'll see that I have a blue horizontal line drawn here. This is a resistance line based on resistance here and here from pre-market. I also have this yellow ascending support line, which I had drawn from several levels pre-market. It goes way back. So I know that we're going to have resistance here and we might have resistance right up here. So we're kind of coming up to resistance, which is a bit of a risk factor. Okay. So we come up to this level. We're sitting here at 697, 688, 688, and then all of a sudden it dumps. So let's watch this. 85 on the bid, 67. You see how it just dropped in basically an instant. It goes from 680 to 675 to 667. The cell orders are just, you know, unrelenting. People are hitting the bid. They're hammering it. So now it's dropping to 70. All right. So it bounces for a moment. That's not too bad. And then, uh, oh, there it goes again. Another flush all the way down to 605. And now here we're $6 on the bid by look at this 579. So my order, I pressed the buy button. First order got rejected. I had to change it and use my hotkeys. So the reason my order got rejected was because pressing an order for $7.21 when the current price is at 579 is more than 10% above the current price. Your order will get rejected because of risk parameters that they set at my broker, at least. So my order got rejected by press my hotkey twice or three times and bought 750 shares at 79. So again, buying basically this panic flush. Now here we're bouncing right off support of volume weighted average price. Is it at the half dollar the whole dollar? No, but we have another level of support here that we're paying attention to. So I guess we should add that support could be ascending or descending resistance lines, horizontal resistance lines, or half dollar whole dollars or something like VWAP, VWAP or MAs moving averages. That's something like the 200 EMA would be fine. Okay. So then in this case here, we do end up getting a bounce. All right. So let's get this bounce. Let's see. So I'm already up here, 80, 89 on the offer back to 80 on the bid. And as we know, this ends up bouncing and going all the way back up to 12, 13, $14 a share. So it bounced up a lot as the day went on, of course, but just for a short term trade, you could think of these as scalps because it's a quick entry and a quick exit. So locked up by profit there on that trade. Some of them, however, are going to be more. So when I was talking about the three sort of scenarios, the first is that the price basically does nothing. You get in at sideways, which means we're bare flagging. The second is the price keeps dropping. The third is that, well, it works exactly as we expected and it bounces. And then it's just the degree of how much it bounces. Sometimes they really spring back up and in an instant, you're up 30, 40, 50 cents a share. And at that point, it's like the wind is at my back. All I have to do is set my stop and break even. And let's see what this thing wants to do because now I'm in the driver's seat. Other times it bounces, but the bounce is a little bit smaller. So let's look at a smaller bounce here. We're going to go back to, um, let's see, minute, 36 and 19 seconds. So here we go, perfect. Right to 36, 19. That was very good. All right. So, so this is another dip. Um, this one's a little bit smaller. What you can see here is, um, a couple topping tails, topping tails, old topping tail, we just had a jackknife, which is that red candle. The price popped up and then reversed back down. So as it reverses back down here, uh, I end up jumping in this at, uh, 75. And the reason I bought here was because I saw this big stack of buyers on the level two, which gave me a sense of confidence. I was like, okay, we've, you know, I think I can get in here and feel good about that. So I'm in at 75 and I want to see it hold this level. Now basically, as you can see, instantly, I'm up five, six cents a share. So I'm up 240 bucks on 4,000 shares. Now, if this thing bounces up to 85 and up to 90, I'm in better shape. But you can see right here, I'm already taking profit because it bounced, but now we're under a whole dollar. So it seems like we're kind of having some resistance here. And if we look at this chart on the one minute or on the 10 second, it's best down and then sort of sideways, which could look like a bear flag. So this at the moment is looking a little iffy. So I end up taking my profit on it. It's not a big winner, but, you know, can't really complain. It's a small green trade. I'm happy for that. Let's jump forward to the next one. This is going to be at minute 50, 24. Okay. So back here, let's see minute 50. All right. So this will be close enough. So all right. So let's see. So right here, so I just looks like I sold a position there. I'm up 11,000 on the day and looking for a bounce off of six. So see right now we've got a seller there at 601. They were at 608 that came down to 601. And I'm going to buy this dip right here. I'm in right there at 601 average. 602 average. So now once again, getting in right at, oh, well, we raised it. I need a three sided whiteboard right at the half dollar whole dollar. So I'm in a 602 stop is about 595, about five cents stop on this. And once again, I'm immediately up to $276, $300. So you can see what I mean, where if you do this 10, 15 times in a day with 80% accuracy, next thing you know, you're going to be up a couple thousand bucks. Now, my accuracy comes from a combination of following the rules, knowing the right stocks to trade, making sure I'm looking for entries at support, half dollars, whole dollars, ascending, descending, horizontal and VWAP moving averages, avoiding halt risk. And one thing I should also add here, let's have rule number four running out of space. We need a whiteboard extension is front side. So dip trading on the front side, not the backside. We'll just see BS trading the backside is BS. We don't trade the backside. So backside is no good. The reason is so to differentiate the front, oops, to differentiate the front side and the backside, let's, well, let's just finish this, this live example for one second, and then I'll go back and show you that. All right. So, so in this particular example here, yeah, that was a good one. So all right. So let's back up. So I added right here at 602. So I'll ask you the question. Do you think we're on the front side of the move or the back side of the move right now? Well, this is all time highs. So are we on the backside? We just had three candles to pull back. We've pulled back to the half dollar whole dollar of six. Check the MACD MACD is open. Do we have a huge rejection candle or a volume top, like a massive topping tail? No, we don't. So we're probably still on the front side of the move. MACD is open, not a big rejection candle. We're on the front side of the move. It's pretty clear when you switch from front side to backside. So we're on the front side of the move right now. So I'm in at 602 average with 6,000 shares. Now I've got a cushion on the day, so I'm starting to take a little bit more risk. I could just take the profit off here at 609, but instead I put a new order at 625 and I say, you know what, I think I'm going to add to the position. As long as this thing holds six, what's my profit target? Profit target, I move back to high a day around 650. OK, so I'm risking five cents a share. So I go ahead and add another 2,000 shares there at 610. It's jumping around, but notice this candle. See that bottoming tail? Now we have a bottoming tail that's formed. I mean, it's just, you know, I got in off of support at $6 and it started to rise back up. And before the candle closed, it ended up bottoming out. Now, if you were trading on a one minute pullback pattern, you would have gotten in right here. So this would have been your spot to buy right here, which is probably where that volume came in. It was traders who were taking that first one minute candle to make a new high, which was closer to 825, I would say. So around, yeah, around 825 was the first one minute candle to make a new high. I'm already in a 605 average, 625, sorry. So oh, gosh, darn it, that's OK. So 625 average, sorry, I'm, I'm in at a 605 average. We're going to back this up 10, 15 seconds. So there we go. All right. So now we've got 625 on the offer, 630, 633. And we're looking for a move back to 650. Now, I'm up $1,700 of unrealized profit right now. And in this case, I end up taking a little bit of it off the table because we kind of end up stalling out here underneath the high. For whatever reason, we've got high volume, like it, we should have gone, but we just sort of stalled out. To be honest, maybe I was getting a little impatient. And I think in hindsight, I'll probably think I should have held it a little longer. But at the end of the day, green is good, got to lock up that profit, got to be consistent and, you know, that's my goal, to show up every single day, to trade every single day and to try to find profit and to try to make sure I walk away before I get back too much of it. And more often than not, I'm walking away in the green, as you guys have seen, certainly from my metrics and my track record. One thing that I'll tell you is that every single day you're doing one, two things. You're either giving back profit or you're leaving money on the table. Now, today I left some money on the table because I chose to stop trading. I was like, I'm going to be done trading. I've done, I've done well enough. I was up just under 18,000. And then I felt a little FOMO that I stopped too soon. So I decided to get back in and then I proceeded to give back profit, which means I both left money on the table by taking a break and then gave back profit anyways, by coming back a little bit later and taking some breakouts that didn't work. So that's kind of discouraging. You want to avoid that, but I'll tell you, the emotion of FOMO is so strong that if you're sitting here and you're watching these continue to go up, it can be almost impossible not to trade it. So sometimes the best thing is to walk away and to not come back. That's challenging for me because I'll walk away and take a break. And then I come back to usually record my recap or to do an episode like this. And then that's when I'm sitting down and I'm like, well, maybe I'll take a couple trades before I start recording. So anyways, it's all good, but I'm finishing here. Well, let's see. I guess I'm wearing my hat on the day. So on the day I'm sitting at $12,796, which is still a great day, more than double the daily gold. However, in the interim here, you may have noticed this chart suddenly looks a little bit different. We actually had some news come out that the company is exercising warrants. So they sold warrants at $6 a share, $700,000 of them, $700,000 shares worth of warrants. So some bad news came out here. And that's not totally uncommon. When you have a stock that's up 400, 500, I think we peaked at 600%. You're the company is going to raise money. That's not uncommon at all. And so one of the things that I'm thinking about on these companies is looking at the filings, understanding what they have in terms of shelf registrations, if they've sold warrants, what the prices are of those warrants, because then that gives you the sense of, well, if this is trading above $6, we've got the risk that these warrants could get executed and the price could drop. And that's where buying a flush can be really dangerous. So for what it's worth that to differentiate, differentiate the front side and the back side of the move, I think at this point, and this is where I walked away this morning, and that was a fine place to walk away. We ended up going sideways and we put in another leg higher, which I missed. We then started to curl right here and I actually took this trade and I was looking for the breakout, holding for the break of 12, and then we got a rejection. And unfortunately on this, because I was taking breakout trades, I was already in before the flush. This is one of the things that can be really frustrating. So if we look at this trade, this is a fine little micro pullback. I bought that dip there for the move through 12 and then it pulls back and I stop out right here. Now actually, so I stopped out, but I added to the position down here and it brought my cost basis from 1180 down to 1118, but it wasn't enough to get back to break even and I sold right through here for a loss, which is fine. I still don't want to panic sell. I still want to add into these drops as long as I'm not looking at getting caught in a halt down as long as that's not the risk and it, you know, I'm getting it around 1050 half dollar whole dollar. I'm okay with that. If it looks like we're getting to the point of being caught in a halt down and I'm in it, that's where I have to panic exit and I hate having to do it, but you got to manage your risk. You got to cut your losses and, you know, that that's what ends up happening. And then there was another stock that I went right on, which was AT&F. And this was actually on a pullback setup as well, not sorry, not a pullback setup, a momentum trade, which was really trading right off of the highs and we ended up getting a rejection. So it was actually right. Well, I'd have to get into the 10 second chart on it, but, but that's okay. So anyways, let's go back here to our slide deck. So, um, so when do I avoid buying dips? I want to really emphasize this because this is important. When a stock is dropping due to breaking news, if I know that the news, that it's just got news that's just come out, which I'll sometimes see, because in the chat room, we've got the news headline and so it'll say offering, you know, the stock symbol, and now I know that it's dropping because of news. I'm not going to get into that. It's going to have a poor profit to loss ratio. If it halts down, it's going to open substantially lower, but if a stock is dropping, simply due to panic and it's still trending up in general. Even if it does halt down, it's often still worth watching for a bounce coming out of the halt or if it doesn't halt, then just for a bounce off of what I can find as the nearest level of support, um, on the chart. So this is a, this is an example here where you can see a number of these bottoming tails, bottoming tails, bottoming tails, bottoming tails, and I got myself into this groove where I just kept looking for these dips to get in. Now, I'll say that it's not, um, like a, you know, I'll reiterate that for a lot of beginner traders, getting to the level of flow state where you're watching the level two, you're seeing this dip and you're having the confidence to jump in. That's not going to be the place for most people. And let's actually go back here. I want to show you this trade at, um, let's see, it was minute 45, 40. So 45, 40, let's go back here. Um, so on this trade here, this is a momentum trade, uh, but this one's pretty interesting. So here we have a stock, well, it's the same stock, but here we have a chart pattern where we kind of had this pop and then we had the jackknife, your call, I bought the dip down here. We got the move back up. So I'm sitting up 10 grand on the day. We had a high of 547 and now we're kind of struggling right at this level. So, um, as I'm watching this area, I'm trying to get a trade for the breakthrough five 50. And what I believe is that based on what I know about half dollars and whole dollars, which, right, we erased that, is that if we can break over five 50 and we can hold over that level, we should get a nice move higher up towards six. So in this case here, we've got, um, we've got five 50, I just bang my foot under the desk. It's a, I, so last year, um, I hurt my toe so bad. I, well, I broke it anyways. Um, I got to be a little careful. So let me just back that up. Um, so I got in here at 547 and it goes to five 50. Uh, oh, it doesn't break. What do I do? I bail. This is called breakout or bailout. I only give it a second and I'm like, you know what? I'm in too high. I'm going to get out. So on 4,000 shares, there are lost like a hundred bucks, uh, three cents a share, two cents a share. It's not a big deal. I get out and I have my order here at 560. I'm ready to get back in, but I just need to, so I get back in here because it comes back up and I'm thinking, all right, we're coming back up. I'm going to give another try. Now you might argue that maybe I shouldn't have even gotten out, but I got out and then it comes back up, I get back in. And now if this thing can hold, I'm looking to add for a squeeze up to six. This is a momentum trade. So right now we've got what you can tell is a bit of resistance around five 50. We're kind of struggling at this area now to set the stage a little bit more. At this moment, this stock is the number one leading gainer in the market. It's up a hundred and seventy three percent, 13 million shares of volume, one million share float relative volume is crazy. We've got news. So is this the type of stock that has a high likelihood of continuing higher? I think so. Some might say, well, geez, Ross, it's already up 176 percent. How high can it go? It's not going to go to 200, not 300, not 400. Certainly not 625 percent, which is what we saw. But that can happen. So I'm looking at this thinking, if this starts to break away, what's the next level of resistance? We've got a lot of room, right? Half dollar, whole dollar. That's the next logical spot. So as we start to pull away here, I add to the position. I'm in at six at five fifty, the half dollar. And now I'm looking to add for the move up to six dollars. So this ends up being a nice trade. All of a sudden here, we pop up to 64, 65, and I could take profit right here. But I don't know. The thing is, for what it's worth, this trade carries a little bit more risk than a dip trade because it could have dropped all the way back down to like 30. So I'm risking more like 20 cents on this trade. So I kind of need to make, you know, 30 or 40 cents to have a better risk to reward ratio. So right there, I take half off the table and that puts me up just under 12,000 on the day. And I regretted it immediately. I was like, I sold too soon. I should have waited for it to tap six. But the problem on this is that I added to my position. I scaled up to 10,000 shares. So now I'm in heavier and I'm up, well, I'm up only 15 cents right now. And since I added at 70 when it came up to 80 and then it stalled right there, what I saw was I think we have a hidden seller here at 580. And for that reason, I said I better take some profit. So let's talk for a second about exit indicators. This was a special request that was asked of me today. So let's talk about what my exit indicators are to sell. Why did I sell there? Now, I would say that one of the indicators I'm using very closely in my trading is level two. I trade using level two. It's a tool that I'm using. So this is the level two right here. I'm clearly watching the level two. I'm watching the time in sales and I'm looking at the chart. So I'm a very technical trader, but the problem is right here, there's a root. There's a seller at six. There's a hidden seller at six and we're having a hard time breaking it. So when we come up to a level and we see a lot of buying, but we fail to break that level, that tells us that there are people that are unloading stock at that level. So that level has a high degree of supply. So we're going to put our, um, put our lines back on here for a second. So we go through. What happened here? This was working just a second ago. All right. So we go through, um, whatever six, we come up or five, we come up to five 50, you know, we pull back for a second and then we punch up here and we come up to six. So what we know is that if we looked at the distribution of orders, you would see in terms of sell orders, as we were looking at this, not a lot of sell orders. And then a lot of sell orders up here, not a lot, and then a lot, not a lot. And then a lot. So as the price goes higher, essentially. This is a map telling us where we're going to have possible roadblocks. So when I see sellers stacked on the level two at five 50, it's not surprising, but I know that if we can break through this wall, the next area where we're going to have seller stacked is up at the next hold on with lower price stocks. This is the way it is with higher price stocks, like Tesla or something like that. Um, it's, it's not as much of this issue, but, but it is with the lower price stocks. Uh, and it makes sense because so many people are buying and selling and, uh, setting profit targets at areas that they think are psychological. I'll put a profit target at, uh, you know, not half dollar. I'll, I'll take profit when we come up to six, right? Something like that. That's what a lot of traders thinks. So that's where they're putting their orders. So if I see, let's see, let's go back to the whiteboard. So if I see, for instance, I'm going to write exit indicators. All right. So exit indicators here. Um, so number one, I'm going to say, uh, large seller. On the level two, but it could also be a hidden seller. So large seller or a hidden seller. Now, a large seller is going to be visible on the level two. That's when we actually see the big 10,000 share order. And you've seen some of them during the recordings today, a hidden seller is more like what we had there back at 80 where it came up, but it just didn't break. And there was a lot of buying, but it, it couldn't break. So I end up taking profit and selling usually when I see a hidden seller or I see, um, uh, a large seller, if I'm only up a little bit on the trade. Now, if I'm already up a lot, then what do I care? I'm, I'm happy to hold and just let it work. But if I just add it to my position, like I've just doubled or tripled my position and then the second after we hit a heavy seller and resistance, then I'm kind of like, I've got my back right up against the ropes. Cause if I hit the bid, I'm going to, I might, I might end up selling flat. So that's when I'm like, maybe I should just try to get out here and I could sell on the offer, I could try to get out on the ask. I don't have to sell on the bid, but that's an indicator for me to potentially exit. So seeing a large seller on the level two or a hidden seller, that's number one. Number two is, um, when, uh, the price, um, movement stalls, when it just kind of like stops going up, because here's the thing. When we're trading momentum, if the price stops moving, that inherently shows that some indecision is taking effect, people are not buying anymore. Why would what are people seeing that I'm not seeing? What's going on here? Like the music stops. That's when I'm like, wait a second, what's going on? So I like to see that we're still seeing a lot of orders going through. We're still seeing a lot of buying. We're still seeing volume. So if volume suddenly stalls out, that's an indicator for me to exit. And I would say in general, these are probably two of the most respected indicators that I use based on reading the tape. Now, based on the chart, um, candle under candle. So a candle under candle is when you actually have a candle that goes red and breaks the low of the previous candle. So like right now we're still fine based on candle over candle, candle under candle. We haven't gotten an exit indicator based on the candles yet. If you wait for the candle, however, that's going to be a bit of a delayed exit because some of these candles are so huge that by the time you have a candle that goes red, it's like 50 cents off of the high. So in this case, you can see for sure, I sold way too soon. And if at the end of this episode, I'll put a link to another episode I recently recorded on one of the indicators I used to help me hold my winners longer. I wish I had used it a little bit more today because I got out of some of these trades way too soon. And, you know, when you sell your winners way too soon, you're kind of, you know, you're selling yourself short, you're cutting, it's, it's just, it's hard enough as a trader and then you have a winner and you don't let it really work. That's, it's just, that's not great. Now I want to highlight the five minute pattern here, little pullback, little pullback and then we start to pull away. And what's important to note here is that when this broke out, it kind of came back down, it didn't really hold this previous level. But when it broke out here and came down, it held the high, which was of this candle right here. So it held that level right there. So we came up, we held this level and then we pushed higher right here. And that made it a really nice five minute breakout. So based on candlesticks for sure, having a first candle go red candle under candle. That's an exit indicator. But I would say these are the things I'm looking at most closely. If I get into a trade and we don't see big sellers, the price is not stalling, which means no big sellers and the price is moving up and we're still seeing candle over candle, I'm going to keep holding as long as I can. And that's when I'm going to potentially get into a position to be in a parabolic trade and we've got a couple, we've had a couple of nice parabolic trades. I had one just yesterday on ZAPP right yesterday on ZAP. I had a parabolic trade pre market where I jumped in this thing right in this area, it was right in here. And next thing you know, it's breaking out. We get a nice little pullback and it goes to six to six, 80 to seven, seven, 50, seven, 80, eight, eight, 20, eight, 40, then you get the red candle. So based on this alone, your first candle telling you to sell was this red candle, but it was a big one and you would have gotten slippage on your exit. So it's important to take a little profit. You know, it, as you have it, it's always good to pay yourself and if you can take profit by selling on the offer, then you're not feeding the tape with a red order. You're not throwing a market order and hitting the bid. You're, you're selling on the ask. You're letting a short seller buy your shares. They're covering their position. They're buying your shares to cover. So selling on the ask into strength is a great way to lock up a little bit of profit without hurting the existing position that you're still holding. And then when you finally get that last exit indicator, maybe the candle making a new low, a big seller on the level two, you know, then that that's your moment to exit. And in terms of when to walk away each day, I often say, number one, if I hit my max loss, of course, I have to walk away. If I've hit my daily goal and then give back half my profit, I have to walk away. So those are kind of my two things. And if I give across my daily goal and then at any time given back half my profit, I have to walk away. So today's a day where I hit a peak of 18,000, I dropped down to 13,000 or right around there and I'm choosing to walk away before I give back more, right? I'm kind of moving in the wrong direction. So I'm going to say, you know what, I overstayed my welcome a little bit today. I kind of took a break, missed a nice move, then came back in and got stopped out. So all right, you know, look, at the end of the day, if you're walking away with a little more in your pocket than you had at the beginning of the day, you're doing well. And my hope is that learning to dip trade will help you do exactly that. Now, if you want to join me for a two week trial, there's a link that'll be pinned to the top of the comments and in the description. If you want to download my collection of PDFs, including the micro pullback PDF and the small account strategy PDF, those will also be pinned in the comments. So I hope you check those out. Thank you for tuning into this episode. I hope you hit that thumbs up, subscribe the channel and I'll see you for the next episode real soon. And I'll remind you as always that, hey, in case you didn't know, trading is risky. My results aren't typical. So manage your risk, take it slow and always practice in a simulator before you put real money on the line. I'll see you for the next episode real soon.