# 67. Dip Trading was HARD Until I Learned These 3 Simple Tricks...
# id=hz7vhSIXXSc (whisper base.en)

I spent the first nearly 10 years of my career never buying dips or pullbacks, but only doing breakout trades. And the reason I did that was because for me, breakout trades were pretty much an R, instant resolution. You get in, they either break out immediately and you've got a winner, or they don't, and you stop out. And for me, that felt good. And one of the challenges that I struggled with in a huge way was that whenever I tried to buy a dip or a pullback, the price just seemed to go lower. And I felt like I was just losing every time. So I kind of just train myself not to even do it at all. And then in 2020, things changed. Something happened. And I learned a little trick that helped me differentiate the difference between a dip where the price is going to go higher and a true reversal. And since implementing that in my trading, I've now been able to expand from trading breakouts to trading really nice pullbacks. And this has allowed me to significantly increase the amount of money I'm making. If you can start implementing these steps in your own trading, I think you'll also see a big improvement. So let's go ahead and jump onto the screen share. I want to start by getting oriented with a chart here that this is a candlestick chart. And on this particular day, we had a news catalyst that sent the price from about $89 a share here. This is a crazy all the way up to over $24 a share. This is a huge move. So naturally, this is something where you could look at a lot of these dips and say, yep, I should have been buying these dips, right? It's easy to say that in hindsight. But when we're sitting here, and this is the information we have, right? Let's just say we're sitting right here, we're going just candle by candle. And we're thinking, all right, you know, price is moving higher. Now it's pulling back. What do I do? Right? And this is where a lot of us have paralysis. We panic, we're like, I don't know, it's, it's extended. It just went from $9, 980, all the way up to 12. Should I really? I don't know. Should I buy this here? Should I buy this dip or is this just going to go lower? And then you talk yourself out of it. And next thing you know, it's up at 13, you're like, Oh my gosh, I just missed the whole move. So how many of you can relate to that? If you relate to it, you're not alone. I did the same thing for a long time. And look, sometimes I'll even do the same thing today. As a trader, we are ultimately trying to predict the future. And the traders who do it the best will be the ones who make the most money. So what we're doing is we're seeing only half the pattern, right? We see the beginning of the pattern, and we're now trying to visualize how it's going to resolve. Is it going to resolve to the upside? Is it going to resolve to the downside? Okay, so the first trick that I'm using to help me understand whether or not this is going to be something that does a complete reversal will sometimes call it a round trip, or is something that's going to continue higher. Number one, we're going to start making a list. All right, so number one is I check the volume profile. Now, as a beginner trader, you most likely have volume on your chart, but it's very easy to kind of overlook it. And in fact, some charts, for whatever reason, don't even differentiate the color of the candle, the color of the volume bar based on the color of the candle. Sometimes they'll just all be light blue or something like that. So then you sort of see the volume like this, just it's almost like an afterthought. Like, oh, yeah, I guess we should throw volume on there. And I'm not saying you did this, but like the whoever made the charts for you, the provider using, but they're not this doesn't give you what you need. So, okay, so let's go in here and change this back. So following is going to be red, right? Growing is going to be green volume. Okay. So this is the profile that I look at. I always want to see that volume is increasing. As the price is moving higher. That's the first step. So number one, so we'll do a increasing volume. So in contrast to increasing volume, what we sometimes will see, and this is from something I was working on yesterday, for taxes, that's another episode that you guys should check out those of you who have not seen it already. So if we had a chart where the price was moving up, we'll make this candle just a little bit. All right. So the price is moving up here like this. But the volume bar was steadily declining like that. This for me is a little bit of a red flag because I'm like, on the one hand, I'm like, yes, the price is moving up. But on the other hand, I'm like fewer and fewer and fewer people are interested in buying it. Why is that? It shouldn't be like that. In fact, it should be the exact opposite where we see lighter volume as it starts and volume increasing as it goes higher. That's a really good volume profile. So anytime we see a sort of divergence between indicators where prices going up, a volume's declining, for instance, or we have one of our other technical indicators like the MACD. The MACD has gone against the trade, but the price is still moving higher. I consider those to be sort of like caution flags. And it's really important to be able to be aware of them, but it's difficult for a lot of traders, especially beginner traders, to keep track of all these things. So the goal here is that we can simplify it into a few steps that you can check. And you can do that every time before you consider taking a dip trade. So the first thing you're going to check is the volume profile. And you're going to look for increasing volume. That's step number one. So that means we want to see the price moving higher and the volume bars also moving higher. So these should be correlating. They should be basically doing the same thing. And if we look at our chart here on rent, we see that's exactly what happened. The price moved higher and the volume moved higher as well. Okay, so this is great. This is what we like to see. Now, when we start to get the pullback, as this candle is forming, I am watching the volume very closely. What I do not want to see is a high volume selling candle. So if this candle, for instance, was read all the way up to here, that would tell a very dramatically different story to me. What that would be telling me is that there was light volume on the move up. And then when selling came in, there were not only buyers who were dumping their shares, there were probably people shorting or maybe insider selling as well. In any case, what it very clearly communicates is an imbalance between supply and demand that's stronger to the sell side. So what you have right here are four candles of green volume accumulation. And now you have a light volume selling candle. So if you just looked at this volume profile, if this was all that you had to look at, just for instance, I think I hope that you would be able to see that the imbalance is stronger to the buy side. In fact, if you only looked at this volume profile and not the chart, let's see what we might think is happening. So we have a little bit of selling. And then look at that. I mean, I know you've already seen the chart. So you could probably visualize fairly easily what happened. But look at this volume, right? This is telling us a huge story. Look at the peaking volume right there, 850,000 shares just in that one volume, just in that one bar, right? And now this is interesting. If we're really analyzing the volume, I would say based on volume profile alone, we've got the nice move up, light volume pullback, starting to move higher. This is where you sort of get that next wave up, right? Most likely. Then you get a little bit of a pullback, a little bit maybe a chop right in here, a little pullback, but the selling volume is still very light on these red candles. And then it surges back up, right? Now it's possible that we could look at the chart and see that it was sideways right here. And if we saw that, just for instance, then that would again be where we have a bit of a divergence. And what that would communicate to us is that although there's a lot of buyers, the price is not moving substantially higher, which means there may be what we call hidden sellers. A hidden seller is an iceberg order. And what it looks like when you're actually in a trade is you'll be looking at the level two, so you've got the bid, you've got the ask right here. Let's say it's nine, nine fifteen by nine twenty five. And on the time and sales window here, you're going to see tons of orders going through in green. And you'll see maybe like a five thousand share seller here at nine twenty five. And you'll see orders going through here for five thousand shares, ten thousand shares, huge orders going through. But this is not changing. What that tells us is that that order right there, they're displaying five thousand shares, but it's an iceberg, which means behind that, who knows, they may have you know, a hundred thousand shares that they're selling. And this is something that big traders, especially at proprietary trading firms, firms, and also professional day traders, even traders like myself who are using the right software, we can choose to use iceberg orders. This is allowed because in the market, if you show your full size and you tip your hat to the market that you're trying to sell a hundred thousand shares, for instance, it could hurt you. It would hurt your own position. So you're allowed to protect yourself from other traders sort of seeing how much you're selling by hiding some of your shares. Now, you can't do that with Robinhood. You can't do that with Thinkorswim or Weebell. You can really only do it with brokers that are designed for professional traders, traders who trade with, you know, multi-million dollar positions. So anyway, so there's a possibility that the price could stall out here in terms of upward movement, and that would be indicative of a hidden seller. But let's just assume here that the price went higher. Then we get a little pullback on light volume selling, a couple of green candles, but lighter volume. And this is where I would say we're beginning to see a little bit of a shift between supply and demand, where we're seeing more selling. Now, if we step back for a moment and think kind of high level about what's going on on this chart, and this is like getting into sort of the psychology and the dynamics of what moves the market, you have typically a catalyst. You know, there's some type of news that has brought traders onto this chart. And it doesn't matter if it's a futures, you know, if it's commodity, if it's a Forex pair, if it's a cryptocurrency, or if it's a, you know, US equity stock, or a stock anywhere in the world, there's some type of catalyst that's gotten people interested. And initially, they start buying, and that's where that early green volume comes from, those first traders who are looking at this who are like, I like this. And then after that first wave of buying, some of those early buyers decide to take a little profit. Some people who maybe have been holding for a while decide to take a little profit. Some short sellers decide to take some positions. And now the question is, does all of that selling exceed the amount of buying that we had? Because if it does, the price is going to swing way back down. And you'll have what we sometimes call a round trip where the price could go up and then come all the way back down. But if the price doesn't go all the way back down, then what it tells us is in that moment in time, there were more buyers than there were sellers, and the supply, demand, and balance is to the buy side. And then what happens is other traders will see this, whatever it is, stock commodity Forex pair, cryptocurrency, they'll see it and they'll realize, wow, this thing is moving up and it's holding up. So now what you have, essentially, and I kind of call this a wave, you have this wave higher, a little pullback, and then that sets up for the next wave up, right? So now you have the profit taking, the little bit of pullback down here, these would be red candles, a little profit taking. And now it balances the supply, demand, and balance as of right here is still obviously positive because we went from a low price to this high price. And now we're coming in where the next round of traders are like, I'm going to buy this, buy this, short sellers may stop out realizing this thing is strong. And all of a sudden you get this next like higher. And that's what usually is correlated with higher increasing volume. That increasing volume is because of early shorts who stop out, they buy to cover and long biased traders who jump into established new positions on something that is strong. So we're typically, we being long biased traders who are trading this type of trend, we're buying these pullbacks. Now, when I first got started, I wasn't buying down here. What I was doing was I was just buying basically the breakout right here. So I was buying the high a day break as soon as something broke high a day, I would get in right here. And you know what, that was fine for a long time. And it's still a fine strategy today because it's instant resolution. You can get in, you can get out, you pretty much get the breakout immediately. But there is a little bit of a challenge with it. And the challenge is that you're getting in a little high, right? Relative to someone who may be bought down here, like I might today, you might even be buying their shares, right? If you got in low enough, you could be taking profit here. Now, if it goes a lot higher, you might feel silly for selling. But nonetheless, buying up here is not your best entry. I would say that this is an entry that has confirmation. And when you ask for confirmation, you pay a price confirmation is the stock or the chart is making a new high, but you pay a price by getting in at the higher price. So when you get in down here, you don't yet have confirmation that it is going to make new highs. You think that the wave is starting to curl back up. You think the dip is going to move higher. You've done your volume profile, which was step one, you check to make sure that we had increasing volume. And number two, you made sure there was no high volume selling. So this was increasing volume as it was ramping up, and then no high volume selling on the pullback, right? So you made sure there's no high volume selling here, increasing volume on the move up. So check, check volume profile you like. Now, there's another step that we're going to go over in just a moment. But you say, okay, I'm going to get in here. You don't quite have the confirmation, right? So it's a little bit of a higher risk position. But that's offset by the fact that your max loss is the low of the pullback. So if you get in right here, where would you logically stop? You wouldn't hold it if it goes all the way down to here. No way. Why would you do that? You sell at the low of the pullback, because if it can't hold those lows, you get out. So rather than buying something as it's actively dipping right down here, I'm waiting for these first early signs of the wave kind of shifting from pulling back to moving back in. I'll show you what those look like in just a moment. So when we get that, that's where I'm getting in, stop is right down here. And then as it comes up to this level, I could choose to add to my position, which will give me a cost basis right around here. And then I've got twice as big of a position as if I had just spotted the breakout. And then if it does break out and moves up here, I'm going to make twice as much money. And that's that's literally what I started doing. So what happened in 2020 was we started seeing these really dramatic moves in price. And we kept seeing, I think it was just the exuberance that there was in the market. We would see these huge moves to the upside. And then we would see dramatic pullbacks. And then it would rally all the way back up. And because these moves were so elongated, because they were so stretched out, it felt like, you know, you got this move up, the pullback, and then to get in at the very top back up here for the breakout, I mean, you were getting in like $2 a share higher. It just felt like you were in way too high. And so I started as I would see it beginning to make this curl right down here. That's where I was like, okay, boom, I'm getting in. And then I started to figure out, okay, some of these are not working. And what is it that's the issue? And so the first step, of course, is analyzing that volume profile. Okay, so step one, analyze the volume profile. Now let's back out of this for a second. Oh, let's see, we'll go like this, we'll go back to full screen. Sorry. All right, so, so now we're dialed in here. So we had our first few green candles right here, right here, two volume, two candles of light volume selling. Okay. And then what happens is we come down to the support of what you see in this case is our nine exponential moving average. So I always want to see price at or above, we'll put it on the whiteboard, the nine EMA, and this is on the one minute chart, one minute timeframe. So price should be at or above the nine EMA. If the price breaks below the nine EMA, then this to me is a more sustained pullback and I don't like it. Now it's not impossible for the price to dip below it just for a second and come back up. That'll happen sometimes if a big seller just presses a cell button, you get a little flush. But if it just sustains that and keeps going lower, that's no good. So generally, I want to see it holding right around the nine moving average right here. And we got that. And my cue to enter, I'm looking here one, two, three, four green candles in a row, two light volume red candles, first candles green. Okay. Now there's one other thing I check. And that's the MACD right here. I check the moving average convergence divergence indicator. And I want to see number three, that MACD is open. Open is when the average is above the signal line. So you have the moving average line right here. And then you have the signal line. And you want to see this is above the signal line. And when it crosses below it, then that's usually when we're coming into a period of consolidation. This has been a real game changer for me, especially trading through the bear market of 2022 and 2023 to help me stay out of trades that most likely we're going to fail. So anyway, so we have this pullback here, right here, MACD is open, we're above the nine EMA right at it. That's fine. Volume profile checks out. This is a place where I'd be buying the dip. And so what I would look for on the level two, before I take the trade, I'm just going to use my hand here, whatever. So I would look for the price moving up like this. Then we get the sell off. One, two, let's just say three candles doesn't matter. And then what I'm looking for, we've got our nine EMA, right, got that our MACD checks out. I'm looking on the level two. The level two window, we've got the bid, we've got the ask, and we've got the time and sales. I always have my time and sales right next to it. So I could see these orders. And what I'm looking for right here, again, let's just say 915 by 925. I want to see we've come down, we've sold off, and I'm looking for green on the tape. I want to see all of a sudden a burst of volume that's to the buy side. Those transactions are going to be green because they're occurring at the ask price, which means people are executing their orders at this price, which is bullish. When people execute their orders at the bid price, it indicates weakness. And those orders appear in red on the tape, the time and sales. Now, I will also add that I prefer to take entries near half and whole dollars. So I know that there is a significant amount of psychological resistance when the price is approaching half dollar and whole dollars. We see this all the time. So I'm going to just kind of simulate what this looks like approximately. This isn't going to be perfect, but you'll get the idea. So let's just say this is five. This is five fifty or well, I guess we said nine. So this is nine here. This is nine fifty. This was eight fifty. This is eight dollars. Okay, that's fine. So the price squeezes higher. It hits resistance at nine fifty, which is at the half dollar. It pulls down here. And let's just say dips to like basically nine. And then this is where it starts to bounce back up right right off of nine dollars, psychological support. The closer that I can get in to nine dollars, if this is also right at the nine moving average, we have now two elements of support. We have support at the psychological level, which is the whole dollar. And we have support near the nine moving average. What will sometimes see happen is the price will test nine. And sometimes it'll actually dip below nine. And you'll see a little burst of selling. That burst of selling is usually early traders who got into early on the dip who are bailing out. They're like, oh, shoot, it's breaking nine dollars. I got to get out of this thing. This is too weak. And I actually like to buy in those spots because what often happens is if it can reclaim nine and hold above it, then it's really a good indicator. We broke below it, but we immediately got back above it. So now I'm executing a buy order down here at like eight ninety eight or nine five. And I'm doing it because I'm seeing some green on the tape. Basically we drop and we immediately pop back up. Now, if just to elaborate on this a little bit more, we came down to, to, you know, eight ninety five on the bid and I'm like, okay, I could buy the dip here. And at nine dollars, there's a one hundred thousand share seller on the level two. No, I'm not going to buy, right? Clearly, there's a huge seller dumping shares. So whenever I'm looking at these dips, I am naturally going to be checking the level two to confirm that we do not have huge sellers that are blocking the way. So I guess number four, I could add here, check level two for big sellers. And this is more of like kind of a bonus. And then another bonus is the preference, preference for entry at half in whole dollars. I find that those are some of my better entries. All right. So this is sort of like preference. But I do, I mean, I'll obviously checking the level two is pretty important. So anyway, so if the level two only shows, you know, five, one thousand, two thousand share seller, no big deal. Okay. So I buy that, I'm then in, and then sometimes I'm in very early, I'm seeing some of those green orders. And whenever I'm taking that kind of dip entry, my stop is right at the low here, right? Whatever the low of this candle was, that's my max loss. So there are times where I will take a starter on a dip. I'll get in at nine, it dips down to 95 and it's sell and I see more red going through on the level two on the time and sales. And I'm like, I'm early, I got to jump out and I'll get out maybe for a five cents, seven cent loss. Usually those losses are less than 10 cents a share, which is not that bad. Okay. So I'm okay with taking a couple of small losses. If I have to, if I'm trying to do this type of trade, and then once I, because I'm trying to time my entry knowing that the earlier I get in with a really tight stop, ultimately the more money I'll make if the trade works. So I don't mind taking a couple of stabs as long as everything checked out that we already discussed, volume profile, price above 90, I'm active open and, you know, the level two looks good. And especially if it's near a half dollar, oops, sorry, half dollar a whole dollar. So then what happens is I'm in down here at 898. And as we get this green candle forming, I'm like, okay, I feel like the tie is starting to shift. And as soon as we get our first candle that makes a new high there, I often will add to my position. So I'm not the type of trader that goes in to dip trades ever with just full size on the first entry. I never do that because dip trading, it does carry more risk. The, the success rate is lower, but the profit loss ratio is higher. And this is important. So when it works, they work really well. You get that move all the way back to the high, but you are buying into a bit of weakness. You're using these steps to help me help you take the best entries, but there's still a little bit more risk of it failing than the obvious breakout trade, at least in my experience. So I don't go in with full size ever. I take a starter position and then I add as it starts working. So I always add to my winners, I don't want to add to my losers. So if it goes lower, I want to cut the loss and get out and get back in if I see another setup. But if it works, I want to add to my winners. So I take a starter at 898, say, for instance, I add 915 up here, maybe 925. So now my cost basis is $9 and 10 cents approximately. It squeezes up to 935, 945. I now am like, look, I could add another 1000 shares, maybe 1000 starter 1000 add. I go to a 3000 share position adding at 950. So now my average is like, you know, let's just say 918 or something. And it squeezes up here right to 975 into $10. So now with 3000 shares from 918 to 10, I'm locking up, you know, 80 cents a share $2,000 winner. That's a really solid trade. And this was on initially a 1000 share position at 898, where my max loss was like 10 cents, 100 bucks. So, so what do you think about that? Risking approximately 100 to make 2000. That sounds like a great profit to loss ratio. And it is. So even if this is right, even if you were successful on this trade, only 50% of the time, let's just say you would still be very profitable. Now with 50% accuracy, as long as your average winners and average losers are the same, you'll be break even. So even if you only made 100 on your winners and lost 100 on your losers, you'd be break even. So making 2000 on the winners and 100 on the losers losing 100. That's great. That's terrific. This is a good profit loss ratio. Now I'll say that something that's important for mitigating risk is making sure you're trading the right stock. So at least for me, because I'm trading stocks, what I think is important is that you're trading something that is obvious. So if it's a cryptocurrency, it's a forex pair, it's futures commodity, you want to make sure you're trading something that's obvious, that has a lot of volume, because that is what's going to create that strong resolution. So ultimately being obvious usually means you need a catalyst. You need some type of news that's bringing in the buyers. So that's an important thing to be aware of. If you try trade, you know, like this on the S&P 500, you know, e-minis or something like that, you're not going to find good success because you're just going to get chopped up. So this is really a strategy more designed for trading something that has news that has a catalyst and that we're looking for the next leg higher. So now let's jump onto this chart and kind of apply what we've talked about here in this example. And I've got another example I'll show you too. Okay, so, and by the way, this is something that I also refer to as a micro pullback. It's a micro pullback because these are, this is all in one minute chart is only like 120 seconds of pulling back. It's very brief. So I'll put a link to my micro pullback strategy PDF, it'll be pinned to the top of the comments and it'll be linked in the description. And you could download it, print it out, and it's going to have everything, you know, that I've kind of been laying out, oops, sorry, a lot of what I've been laying out here and it has some other stuff that pertains specifically to these micro pullbacks. So you might want to check that out and you can download it and use it in your trading. Okay, so we had this move up, we had this pullback, and then hopefully as long as the level two checked out, everything else looks good. The volume is good, the MACD is good, and we're above the 9 EMA. So everything checks out there, we get this nice move up for green candles. This is the spot where I would have been, you know, taking a starter potentially, and look at this, this actually bounced right off the whole dollar of 11. So maybe a starter at like 1105 with a stop at 1098. Adding first candle to make a new high was actually 1170. So that's 70 cents a share higher. But look, if you had a starter down here, you know, you're up 70 cents a share. So you could add there, the higher day is 1210. So let's say maybe you added over 1150. When it bounced over 1150, you're like, okay, this looks good. I'm going to add to this. So now you're adding 1150, you've got 2000 shares average cost 1125. It squeezes up here to 12, you add another 1000 shares at 12. So you know, look, this is a $30,000 position, a little more than if you actually took it with 3000 shares. But nonetheless, let's just play it out. And your average is now like 1140, you get the squeeze here up to 1250 to 13, up to nearly 1350. So, you know, for real, on a 3000 share position, your max profit on this could have been $6,000. It's a 20% return. That's a huge trade. Now realistically, you probably would have sold some into this break over 1250 up to 13 scaling out, maybe you locked up three grand, right? Still a 10% return. And you're doing that in a very short period of time. Now here, we get a pullback. But again, notice that the selling volume was a little higher. And then the green volume of this candle is also a little lower than the selling volume. So now we're a little matched in the supply demand relationship, a little more selling, another little pop, and a little more selling the prices above the 90 ma right here. But we're starting to kind of go sideways. All right, so this this type of area gets a little tricky, because usually I like this nice clean wave. When we start to go kind of sideways here, that's where we may be dealing with issues of hidden sellers up around 1350, possibly. I'm not 100% sure it does because I'm not looking at the level two right now, it does break 1350. And when it does, you get that move higher. This right here, this setup, wouldn't have been as easy to buy a dip on because of the way it dipped here, bounced back up, but then didn't go through the high. So you could have taken a starter, probably wouldn't, well, you wouldn't have added because you wouldn't have had the high a day break, right? So you wouldn't have added up there. It dips down again, it dips down again, it dips down again to about 1250. And I don't know if I would have taken a starter on this. On this one, I might have only done the breakout trade as it started to pull away. So let it pull away and then buy a micro pullback here under 1450 for the move up to 15, 1550, 16, and so on. You get another dip right here. So relatively light volume here, a couple light volume selling candles though as well, a green candle sorry, another high volume higher volume red candle. And now we're getting into chop. So this is where it becomes a grinder. And one of the things I always focus on is the first and the second pullback. By the time we get up to the third pullback, it can work, but the risk is getting higher. Okay. So now let's look at an example here of another stock I traded this week. This one was really nice here. So, okay, so we're gonna get dialed in here. So we've got a pretty big move, as you can see from $4 up to a high of 850. We started to pull away right in this area. This is kind of when it began, if we go back here. One of the things I also noticing immediately is like the the MACD waves. So the MACD is open right here and then crosses over right there. So now it's negative and then it crosses back in a positive right here. So I don't like to trade when the MACD is against the trade. I wait for it to be positive. So this right here would have been a pullback that would have been acceptable. High volume move up relatively light volume selling MACD is positive. We're near the nine moving average right here and we pull away. So that would have been fine for a dip down here. You didn't get the break through the high on the first attempt, but it formed what we call an ABCD pattern. So ABCBoom breaks on letter D and it looks like a W when it breaks. And then right here, this is consolidation right underneath the high a day. So it's not really a true pullback. It hits a high here, but then look high volume selling. Okay, so we got to wait a second. MACD now crosses over. Okay, so we're still waiting. We're still waiting. Then it starts to pull away here. This isn't a spot where I would have bought this dip. You're below the nine moving average. Your volume profile was higher on the selling. Your MACD is negative. I wouldn't have traded it. It's fine if it goes up, but it's just not a high probability setup. It moves higher here. I let it go without me and then I watch the first pullback discipline. All right, we get the first pullback right here accumulating on these bottoming wicks where we dip and then adding for the first candle to make a new high. We don't get stopped out because it doesn't come down below the low. We're just going sideways and again, another sort of ABCD pattern. It pulls away here. This is a micro pullback right here. Some traders will do a dip there for a quick scalp higher and then a high volume rejection. Higher volume rejection MACD crosses over. We go negative and we have another higher volume rejection candle here. Now we're seeing some higher volume selling candles. In spite of that, the price does surge higher. When it surges higher, now we have another opportunity to watch this pullback. Right here, light volume selling, higher volume green candle, and there you get that resolution as it pushes higher. In this case, another rejection on higher volume indicates that this is getting a little bit more difficult to trade. When you start seeing these big rejection candles, what it usually tells me is that there's an insider who's dumping shares into the move. I want to be careful because they could dump shares at any time. You do get another move higher here. Barely a pullback. Squeezes up, but these candles start to get really big. This is where although there's profit to be had, it's actually easier to manage risk early in the move. Now you're starting to get a little extended. It gets a little choppy. Once again, we get a MACD crossover right here, crossover. None of this is interesting, not trading any of this range. At this point, now it's below the high. There's no opportunity. Higher volume rejection candle right there. Then the next day, this gave us more opportunities. Next morning right here, all of a sudden, bright and early, this thing squeezes up at 6.30 to 7. It pulls back, and it comes back up for second attempt. This was a longer pullback, not the type of pullback that we're talking about here today. This here, two, four, five, six, seven, eight green candles, one small red candle. The volume's a little higher on that candle. I actually remember when I looked at that, I was like, okay, we've got six, eight, seven green candles in a row. This is going to roll over here. I was surprised when it pushed higher. What I think happened was some shorts hit this because it had been up so much, and it was a continuation set up from the previous day. Those don't typically work as well. It was coming into this resistance, which was right against this rejection candle right here. There are a lot of reasons I think people were short, had a short bias on it. Then when it went higher, they had to cover. They bought to cover, and then long traders are jumping in just to scalp that momentum higher. All of a sudden, it goes to eight, eight, 10, eight, 20, eight, 38, 59. Here's a nice pullback. A little bit again, higher volume, but still lighter than the previous candles. There's no doubt that the imbalance here is to the buy side. There's a lot more buying than selling. It pushes higher. Another light volume pullback and it pushes higher. Again, MACD is open. We're above our nine moving average. The volume profile is decent. There's an imbalance to the buy side. This all checks out. First pullback, maybe this one's a little bit tough to say because it was kind of a little bull trap or a bear trap. Short sellers got trapped. This is a proper pullback. This is a proper pullback. This again, now we're getting into this area where we've got big ranges. You take a little bit more risk when you're trading in this area, you have to mitigate that with slightly smaller share size. But nonetheless, this was a really solid move. So we got, in this case, two days of opportunities on this and through this move here, from down here up to the top here, I had $10,000 of profit trading that. Now I ended up giving back a little bit off the top by trading this range with too much size. Even I was being a little too aggressive. But once that MACD crosses over right here, then it's time to walk away and take a break. So a lot of traders, they'll get caught into now buying this dip and it doesn't really bounce. And then they're buying this dip here and it's going lower. And it's like, guys, the MACD is crossed over. The volume profile, the sellers have come in, right? We're below the nine moving average. So if you started following these steps before you consider taking a dip trade, you're checking the volume profile, you're asking if the price is above the 90MA and you're checking that the MACD is open. That from a chart perspective is going to help you rule this out or tell you whether or not you should proceed. If all of that checks out, then you're pulling up the level too and you're looking for entries around half dollars and whole dollars, right? Those are your bonuses for being really dialed in. So this ended up really, the move was pre-market right here. And then the rest of the day, it ended up being choppy. And look at the open. Look at that high volume selling. There's no doubt the imbalance was to the sell side. There were people that were buying these dips, but it didn't make sense. Now the price is below the volume weight average price. This just, it's not the right place to be a buyer here. Now after hours ended up squeezing up again, but I don't usually trade in the after hour session later in the day. I focus on trading. My window generally is from about seven a.m. until 11 a.m. each day. That's kind of the extent of my window for the most part. So I'll trade for a few hours each day, but I try not to overstay my welcome. One of the things that I found is that it is really hard as a beginner trader to know when to walk away, right? When to call it a good day. And I'm sure many of you have the experience of, you know, doing well, having a nice green day, right? You're watching your P&L. Let's see. Well, we'll do this. That's fine. You're watching your P&L build up, you know, first you're up, you know, whatever. And then you pull back and you're up a little more, a little more, a little more. And you know, should you, should you walked away there? You kept going. Should you walk away there? You kept going. Should you walk away there? You kept going. Should you walk away there? You kept going. What about here? And next thing you know, you're actually finishing the day in the red. That is devastating. And I've been there. So to help you in sort of multiple ways in this episode, if you have fallen into that habit, here's a little bonus trick that I'll share with you that I think that you'll appreciate. Okay. So what I would do is when you're trading, every day when I start, I'm starting not with my full position on my first few trades. So for me, when I'm trading full size, that could be 30,000, 50,000 shares if I'm feeling really confident and the price is moving. So that's like full size for me. So when I'm starting each day, I cap my share size at 5,000 shares. So that's like 10% of full size, right? Full full size. So you know, you go a little higher than 10%. But in any case, 20%, maybe. So 5,000 shares is my starter position. And I will not increase my share size until I have first made over $1,000 on the day, which is 20 cents per share. So until I've made that first $1,000 right here, I'm not increasing my share size. And the reason is because when I start each day at zero, that's when I have the most risk of going red. If on that first trade, I take 20,000 shares and I lose 20 cents, I'm going to be down six grand, right? That's a huge loss. I want to avoid those kind of red days as much as possible. So instead of starting with that kind of size, I start with small size until I'm up $1,000. Once I'm up 1,000, I take my cap off and I can trade aggressively, right? Now I've got $1,000 a cushion. If I go right back down to 1,000, I'm going to bring my size back down. But on a good day, I increase my size and next thing you know, I'm up, you know, 3,000. I'm up 4,000. I'm up 5,000, right? I start making progress, maybe higher. And then here's the thing that's really important. When do I walk away? So I have rules that I follow in my trading that help me sort of automate this process. The first rule is not taking more than 5,000 shares, 5,000 shares right here until I'm up more than $1,000. The second rule is once I cross my daily goal, once I cross my daily goal right here, I never want to give back more than half of my profit. So at this point, I essentially have a trailing stop on the day at $2,500 right here. But if I end up making my way up to 10 or 15,000, well, that trailing stop is moving higher and higher. And this is giving back half is like the worst for me. I hate giving back half. I don't like that at all. But if I give back half, I walk away. I shut my computer off. I walk away. If I give back 10%, a lot of times, I'm thinking, all right, let's cool off. Let's start to reduce that share size, right? I might put the 5,000 share cat back on for the rest of the day if I give back too much. So 10%, you know, 15%, 20%. These are all acceptable places to walk away or to put a restriction back on the account to avoid the risk of going below this halfway point, right? So I try to make sure I do not go below this point. But if I give back more than half, I walk away right then and there. The problem for a lot of traders is that this might happen in one trade. All of a sudden in one trade, they get back half. And now they're emotionally triggered. They're like, oh my gosh, I cannot believe that just happened. And immediately they jump in in the next trade and in the second trade, they go like this. So this right here, this loss, it'll happen. Sometimes it'll happen. You're having a good day, you're feeling confident, you scale up and then boom, you take a big loss. But what you have to do is you have to walk away as soon as that happens. And that way, you're walking away still with profit on the day, right? Whatever you made up till there, maybe it's 2,500, maybe it's 1,000, whatever it is, you're walking away with profit. And then when you're sitting down and you're looking, you know, at the end of the month or whatever it is, you're looking at your P and L, you're saying, oh geez, you know, I'm actually, I'm really having some solid consistency here. You know, and I'm just going to pull this up here for you. So you look at this and you're like, all right, you know, these are a lot of solid green days. I'm avoiding the red days. Now, look, even for me, I will have bigger red days from time to time. I had a couple in March here. This was a little while ago. I had a couple back here. And this red day was 5,800 back there. So look, it happens. I'll have these red days. But one of the things that I did following those bigger red days was I, so during this stretch here where I made over $100,000 just in this stretch, I took my restrictions off my account. I wasn't using the 5,000 share cap when I was starting trading. I was going big from the beginning because the market was so hot, right? And that's what gave me this big push. But then I had a couple of red days and I was like, okay, got a course correct. Let's put the restrictions on. Let's put the bumpers on, the guard rails, the training wheels, regain confidence. And then, you know, if we come back into a really hot market, I can loosen them up. But as a beginner trader, it's so important for you to cultivate a mindset of confidence, right? Calm, cool, collected confidence. All right. Now, one of the things that I'm thinking about for a lot of beginner traders is if you're struggling with your confidence, how do you get yourself into what I would call a positive feedback loop? And what I would focus on first is your accuracy. Because one of the things that creates a sort of low confidence, low self-esteem for beginner traders is when they're trading at like 45% accuracy. You know, you're losing on most of your trades, the majority. And you're like, I'm trying, but I just keep losing. So focus on accuracy. When I say focus on accuracy, I mean, take fewer trades and focus on the best quality setups. Trade just those first and second pullbacks. Don't overstay your welcome. Make sure you're always trading really obvious setups, not like not the obscure ones that have no volume, trade stuff that's obvious. What you will most likely see when you focus on increasing your quality standard is that what improves your accuracy. And you can see a bump from 50% to 60%. And that's substantial. You go up to 60% accuracy, you know, that's, that's a huge improvement. So what does that do? Now your accuracy is improving. So out of 100 trades, you're right on 60 of them. And because you're focusing on A plus quality setups, you have started to reduce the number of times you take big losses on B and C quality setups, which means what improves your profit to loss ratio. Your profit to loss ratio is the comparison of your average winners and your average losers, right? So your average winners and your average losers, these are positive, these are negative. So for a lot of beginner traders, and I was no exception, my average losers were twice the size of my average winners. On average, I was, well, let's see, I can't remember now. I can remember it in cents per share. So I was making incense per share about 12 cents per share, but I was losing about 24 cents. So I had a negative profit loss ratio of one to two. The profit loss ratio of one to two, you actually need to be right 66.67% of the time in order just to break even. Now that's, that's setting the bar kind of high. And I'll show you my metrics here. If we look at my trading, and this is going to be over the course, I'll filter this out. This is $12.6 million of profit, real money, accuracy 68.6%. So you can make a lot of money with 68, you can make, here's a way to phrase it, you can make a lot of money and be wrong 32% of the time. That's awesome, right? Average winners, average losers five minutes long, pretty quick trades. But that's only when you have the right profit loss ratio. My profit loss ratio right now is slightly negative, but it's close to one to one. During the game stop period, I had one huge loss of $240,000 loss, which was terrible. I did have $140,000 winner during that period. And I came out with profit. But anyways, that definitely hurt my profit loss ratio pretty badly. Anyways, it's water under the bridge now, it's whatever. So if we come back here, if you were trading with your average winners being, you know, a dollar on average, and your average loser's being $2, 66% success, that's not realistic for beginner. So ultimately, that profit loss ratio is not acceptable. You need a profit loss ratio that's closer to one to one, which would have your break even be at 50%. And if you could be 60, 65%, you're doing well. So tightening up the profit loss ratio, if I said, hey, you need to improve your profit loss ratio. What would you do? You might think, I need to cut my losers sooner and hold my winners longer. Those are logical things to do. But it's gonna be a lot easier to do that if you're trading the best quality setups. So it starts with a quality setups, and then that improves your profit loss ratio. And then what's going to happen is your consistency is going to improve. So this is where we're looking at the calendar, right? We're looking at the calendar all the days of the week, whatever. And you're seeing, when you look at it in hindsight, you're like, okay, wow, green, you know, green, green, green, these are all green days, right? You're gonna have a couple red days here and there, whatever. But you're seeing mostly green days, consistency is improving. And when you have this kind of, these kind of metrics, then when you look back at your P&L for, you know, the last 30 days or whatever, you know, it's going to be more like this. All of a sudden, next thing you know, you're on a positive feedback loop. You're accuracy strong, your profit ratio strong, your consistency strong, your confidence is building up. This is where you've got dedication, discipline, drive, you've got confidence, you've got your calm, and you're collected, and you're also cool. So, and you're, you're, you're damn good. I don't know. It's the 4D, the 4D. That doesn't matter. I just had to, I just wanted to make it even. So the idea here, for beginner traders is, as always, to practice an assimilator before you put real money on the line, and to build this track record of consistency, because this track record of consistency, right here, this is what's going to give you confidence when you have your first drawdown. The biggest milestone or beginner trader is recovering in whole from your first drawdown. Once you've done that, then you know you've, you've like, you've made it. So, you have your, your first move up, which is awesome, but it could be beginner's luck. Have your first drawdown, recover from that, and go higher, and now you're in really good shape. So, I hope this episode has been really helpful. I really encourage you to download the Micro Pullback Strategy PDF that's linked in the description and pinned in the top of the comments. Make sure you check your volume profile. Make sure the price is at or above the 90MA. Make sure the MACD is open, and it's a bonus. Check the level two for big sellers, and preference is always going to be towards entries at half dollars and whole dollars. If this episode was helpful, make sure you hit that thumbs up. Subscribe to the channel for more episodes on trading strategy just like this, and I want to thank you for tuning in. I'll remind you, as always, trading is risky. My results are not typical, and there's no guarantee you'll find success. Whether you train on your own or you learn from me, so take it slow, manage your risk, and practice in a simulator. I'll see you for the next episode real soon.