# 72. High Accuracy 1 Minute Scalping Strategy (Full Training)
# id=p1W8Mjl4kWs (whisper base.en)

In today's episode, I'm going to teach you the simple scalping strategy that I use in my own trading to capitalize on the short term burst of volatility that we see nearly every single day in the market. I'm primarily using five minute and one minute time frames. I do supplement that with a 10 second chart, but I want to encourage you guys to keep it simple. I think a lot of you are making this a lot more complicated than it needs to be. So today, I'm going to walk you through quite simply how to start scalping. We're going to zoom in here on this slide deck. We're going to have a great case study for my trades today on ZAPP. As you can see, I'm up over $10,000 on this stock, and I did most of these trades in less than just two hours this morning. So, scalp trading is a strategy you can implement every single day in the markets, and let's go ahead and dive right in. Okay, so we're going to full screen this slide deck here, and you'll be able to see my trades here on ZAPP ZAP. This is a stock that went up today over 100%. I mean, this is a phenomenal move, and these are the types of stocks that a lot of beginner traders will struggle with because if you're not scalp trading, you almost can't trade it because the stock is up too much. You'll just feel like, I can't get in this high because I can't manage my risk, but if we change our perspective and we focus instead on having a nice 10, 20, 30% winner to just a 10, 15, 20 cent winner, now you've sort of adjusted the parameters of the trade, and you could find a spot where you can get in with 15 cents of risk and 25, 30 cents of upside potential. That is a scalp trade that's worth taking, and so scalp traders like myself are able to participate in these moves even when they get extended, and in fact, this can be where we have some of our best trades. So these green dots are where I was buying, buying, buying, the red dots are where I was selling, and so this is classic scalp trading where I'm getting in and I'm getting out. I'm getting back in, I'm getting back out, back in, back out, back in, back out, and I keep trading the whole range up, but what's very important is that I do not overstay my welcome or trade the backside coming back down. Now, when it starts to pull away again, I'm ready to participate. I'm trading again in these areas right here and in these areas here, and in this dip right there, looking for that curl back up through the high. So what are we going to talk about in today's class? The topics, we've got five of them. I'm going to define scalp trading for you, for those that don't understand exactly how it works. I'm going to share with you the pros and cons of scalp trading because it's not all, you know, easy sailing. It can be very challenging. I'm going to share with you the tools required to scalp, the skills required to scalp, and then I'm going to share with you my scalp trading strategy. I'm also going to give you guys a PDF where you can download all of the rules of my strategy that will be pinned to the top of the comments. So those are free gifts for you guys who are watching today's episode. Let's start with the definition of what scalp trading is. Scalp trading is a fast-paced day trading strategy. You cannot scalp trade as a swing trader or as an investor. It is a day trading strategy and it's designed to capitalize on short duration volatility in price. So when the price is really volatile and it's jumping up and down, that's when we're scalp trading. We don't scalp trade a stock that's going sideways. If you get into a stock at five and you sell it at five, you don't make money. We want to get into five and sell it at five, twenty five, five, thirty, five, forty, five, fifty, or higher. But for scalp traders, we don't usually try to hit home runs. We take small base hits and we just do it again and again and again. And these base hits add up to they can to substantial amounts of profit as the case has been for me. Although I'll caveat that as always, results are not typical and you've got to manage your risk when you're trading. Number three, it's a high accuracy strategy for traders who execute it correctly. High accuracy, I think is important because when you trade with sixty five, seventy, seventy five percent accuracy, it's a real confidence booster. It's like, I'm right, more than I'm wrong. I really know what I'm doing. Now, there are some traders out there that can trade with thirty or forty percent accuracy and still make money because they occasionally hit home runs. And that's great, but it can also be disheartening when you're wrong the majority of the time. I understand it can work and it can be part of a profitable strategy, but you've got to have the emotional discipline to be able to tolerate those stretches of losses and well, I don't really have it. And then number four, scalp trading is a way to participate in a move up. That would be unsafe for swing trading or long term hold times, as I already mentioned. Okay, so what are the pros of scalp trading? I would say that one of the pros is that you're never married to a position at any time. You can just hit the bid and bail out. Now, for me, I really like that scalp trading allows me to trade and participate in parabolic extensions because that really is where I make the most money. I don't do super well trading stocks are within a 10 or 15 cent range. You know, they're going up a little bit then dropping back down. It's just not enough range for me to make a lot of money, certainly even as a scalp trader, but also if you're trying to hold for a bigger move, that's just not enough range. But the problem is, unless you're in during this period of consolidation, right? So let's just say we have a stock that's made a move up, has pulled back and is now kind of in range here. This is the range where we've only got, let's just say 15 cents of, you know, upside down side. So there's not a lot of profit, but by the time it finally is back up here, well, unless you bought and held during this consolidation to take profit while it's up too high, unless you're willing to scalp and then you take a little micro pullback for the next leg up. Now, someone who's taking a huge position probably wouldn't feel comfortable buying up here, but for scalp traders who are jumping in and out of the market with often relatively smaller positions, that's a perfectly reasonable place to take a trade. So you can participate in those areas. I also feel like, as I indicated, there's a big benefit to maintaining high accuracy by selling when you're green. Now, I know a lot of traders will struggle with having winners that are really small and losers that are too big, and that is one of the cons of scalp trading. So the drawback to scalp trading, well, number one is that your commission is in fees related to frequent trading can be expensive. Now, that's good to depend on the broker that you're trading with. If you're using a commission-free broker like thing or swim, then you don't have to worry about commissions, but you do still have some fees that they pass on from the exchanges. So they're small, but they will add up if you trade millions of shares a day, and some people do. Now, one of the challenges with scalp trading is that most scalp traders will have small average winners, and that creates the biggest risk here, which is that you can have an inverted profit to loss ratio. We're going to talk about profit to loss ratios a little bit more as we get into this class here, because it's an important concept to understand when it comes to choosing the best entries. But the long and short of it is that if you have relatively small average winners, and you're not good at cutting your losses quickly, then you'll have average losers that are bigger than your winners. Now, if you've got really high accuracy, you can still be profitable with that inverted profit to loss relationship, but it just makes it harder. So one of the things that's really important with scalp trading is that you cut your losses quickly. However, this is hard for a lot beginner traders for a multitude of reasons. Number one, just instinctually, they don't want to cut their losses. You want to keep holding and hope that it turns around. So you've got to fight your instinct to hold number two, your educated intuition is not yet refined to be able to see the exit indicator before it's too late. And number three, depending on the tools you're using, the platform and the hotkeys, you may not be fully equipping yourself to move in and out of the market as quickly as you need to as a scalp trader. But I'm going to help you with all of these things in today's episode. So I would say the fourth risk is the loss of profit between the spread on market orders. A lot of beginner traders are using market orders. And if you happen to have a stock that has a larger spread, and this is an example of one right here that I'll show you just for the sake of it, this stock right now has a 13 cent spread. And the spread's jumping around. It's 1588 by 1595. So at times to 10 cent, at times it's eight cent, and then at other times it's 1520 cents. With a bigger spread like this, if you buy at a market order, you'll fill on the offer at 1599 or 16. And then if you turn right around and sell on the bid as a market order, you're going to lose five to 10 cents just on the spread. So scalping becomes increasingly difficult as the price of the stock goes higher. Now, there's definitely a sweet spot in terms of price that I'm going to share with you as we get into my strategy for scalping. But just it's worth being aware of one of the cons to scalping is the loss of profit between the spread on market orders. So the tools required to be a scalp trader. Number one, you're going to need software for finding volatility in real time. And for me, that's the day trade dash scanner that I have on my screen and I'm using every single day for trading. So these are the scanners right here that I'm using. These have been developed by my own development team. It's a subscription at warrior trading that many of our members are using. So these are the scanners I'm using to find stocks today, trade. You can certainly use social media. You can use some free tools. And free tools could give you a list of some of the most volatile stocks today. But in real time, I like having this radar because it's actually telling me in real time, oh, ANVS right now, this second is making a new high, right? So as this stock is pushing higher, this is telling me instantaneously that that's happening. And that's what I need. If I'm just looking at a list that refreshes every 15, 20 minutes, that's not going to be sufficient. All right, so we need to have scanners. We also need to have access to level two market data. Level two market data is what you just saw in ANVS right here. It's available with all brokers. You just have to subscribe to it and some brokers will make you pay a little extra for it. Number three, you need at a minimum, simple hotkeys that will allow for rapid order execution, preferably more advanced hotkeys for complex orders would be great. But if you don't have that, at least simple hotkeys is a must. So there's a lot of brokers that offer simple hotkeys that you can get away with and it's good enough. And there's a small number of brokers that offer complex hotkeys. We'll talk about those more in detail as well. And then number five or number four, you need software for your analytics. I like to use trader view for my analytics. This is what I'm using right here. You can see the screen. This is aggregating all of my trading data, $12.7 million here in gross profit. And it's giving me all of the metrics around these trades. We're going to analyze some of these metrics as we go through this class because these metrics will show you where I'm trading the best, the price range, the time of day. I think as you're aspiring to learn how to be a successful trader, it makes a lot of sense to analyze the metrics of someone who's been doing it before you and is doing well, right? It always makes sense to learn from the mistakes of people who have come before you and to learn from the successes as well. All right, so now let's get into the meat of what we're talking about here, my scalp trading strategy. And I'm going to break this down into five steps. Starting with step number one, which is finding a stock that's volatile. So of course, I'm using my scanners to find these stocks. But what I'm specifically looking for on the scanners is a stock that has at least five times relative volume. Five times relative volume means the volume is five times higher than its 14 day average. So if we look at ANVS right now, as it hits a high of 1720 right here, we can see that the relative volume on the daily is 10.39. That means the stock is trading on 10 times higher volume than average. We already said my minimum threshold is five. This is at 10, which is great. ZAPP, which is the stock that I traded today, is actually a little lower. This one's at four, which is kind of interesting. But this falls into the category of what we would call a continuation setup. Continuation setups are stocks that have been very strong for several days. And we're riding that momentum higher. However, because of high volume in previous trading sessions, the average daily volume is going to go lower because each of these previous trading sessions are increasing the daily volume. So continuation stocks can be one category of stocks that sometimes will fall just below your relative volume threshold, but we'll meet the other criteria. Number two, demand should be up. We want to see that the stock is up at least 10% on the day. So five times relative volume, that indicates high demand, the stock being up 10%. That indicates high demand. ANVS is currently up 52%. ZAPP hit a high of just about 100%. Number three, we like to see that the stock has a catalyst. All right, so when we're talking about a catalyst, generally speaking, we're talking about some type of news event, right? We need to see that the stock has a reason to be moving higher. In the case of ANVS and ZAPP, both of these stocks are examples of continuation where clear catalysts are not as obvious. And I think that this is a challenge for a lot of beginner traders, because it's like, you know, what is the catalyst? And a lot of people think that the catalyst should be very much like a fundamental piece of news, but it's not impossible that the catalyst can be something a little less tangible, such as the stock is up 400% in the last 30 days. And some shorts are starting to get squeezed out and the price keeps going higher. That can be a catalyst. Number four, I prefer to trade stocks are priced between $1 and $20. This is the kind of range that I like. ANVS currently up around 17 is at the high end of that range. And you can see it's already back down to $16, 1624. So when you get into the high end of this range, the volatility is high, but the ability to manage risk goes down. So you kind of have this inverse relationship where as price, price increases, so does risk. So price and risk here. So when we get here, I kind of like to trade down, you know, if we go, I don't know, maybe down into the under $1 range, the risk is low. And also, I suppose we've got another angle here on exactly where profitability fits in. So if we just map my profitability, we'll find that let's just say for the sake of argument that we're just going to put, you know, some of my biggest winners, I've had some big winners up here, which have been on GameStop. But these have also contributed this high price, high risk to some of my biggest losses, right? So I've also had some big losses. So here's where you'll see plus, you know, $475,000, my biggest green day of all time. But you'll also see minus $275,000, my biggest red day of all time. And then down in here is where we're seeing more of kind of my standard green days of up around $5,000 daily goal. So I found that when we're talking about this area, which is lower risk, this is when we're going to be looking at stocks that are generally priced between two and 20. Again, when you get to the high end of that range, it starts to get a little riskier. And number five, I know that when I am trading stocks have a float of less than 10 million shares, I tend to do better. Float is the number of shares available to trade. So when we go back to the scanners here, what we're going to see is that these stocks are telling us essentially how well they meet the criteria that I already know is where I find the most profitability. So we're seeing here, we've got the relative volume, we've got the change from the close, we've got the price, we've got the total volume on the day, and then we can see what the news catalyst is on this particular stock. So if we tie in my metrics here, all of this will support what I've already shared with you. If you look at price and volume, you're going to see that my performance is predominantly in, you know, the under $20 price range. Yes, I've got some winners here, but of course, also have some bigger losers. We look at performance based on relative volume. And what we'll see is we've got to go over to instrument, we look at performance by instrument volume. And what we'll see is that when we have a stock that has high relative volume, that's what I'm going to do better. All right, so this is performance by instruments relative volume right here. Okay, so this is where you could see basically all of my profit is when the stock has five times higher volume today than average. Now this right in this area is actually where ZAPP is going to fit in, ZAPP is going to be in this range here, where the performance relative to the prior days relative volume is actually much lower, and that's because it's a continuation stock. So all of these metrics, these essentially are defining the strategy, but it's communicating it in a way that may be very hard for a beginner trader to understand. And so this is kind of that translation of what the metrics are saying. The metrics are saying that this is where I make the most money. This is where I find the most success. Now, if we want to talk about some of the facts of my biggest not just my biggest winning trades, but the facts of my trading history in total. A couple of highlights. I'm right about 68.5% of the time. Again, this is not just my opinion. This is backed up by this data right here. 68.5% of the time, that's my accuracy. And this is based on nine years of trading history. And that's not my entire career. That's just the trading history that I've been able to put into this software here. So my accuracy is 68.5%. My average winners and average losers are approximately equal in dollar amount. I profit therefore by having accuracy above 50%. Because if my accuracy was 50% and my average winners and losers are even, then I'm a break even trader. But because I'm right, 68.5% of time, I am profitable. Now, my average winners are about 14 cents per share. And my average share size is about 10,000 shares. And my average profit per trade is $1,400. Now, in order to make 14 cents, which you could argue is a scalp trade, the price needs to go up closer. I would say the 30 cents. Now, this is why I say that. You'll never capture the perfect bottom to top of a move, right? You pull up a chart, you've got a nice pullback. You're never going to get the perfect entry and the perfect exit. You may get a perfect exit. You may get a perfect entry. You'll never get both in one trade. It just doesn't happen. So I like to figure that realistically, at best, I might only capture half of the move. And part of that is because of the factor that spreads play into a move. And the fact that by the time I see my exit indicator, the price is probably already going to pull back a little bit. So at best, I might capture half, which means if my average winner is 14 cents a share, if I don't think a stock has the potential to go up 30 cents, I shouldn't even touch it. That's the truth. So for a scalp trader, you need to really ask yourself, does this have the potential to give me X number of cents per share? I would say 30 cents is sort of a good minimum. Because again, even if a scalp trade is only three or four cents a share, as it will be with some traders, you still want to know that you have the potential for a bigger winner. Now, as I said, I'll never capture the perfect bottom top of a move. I have to accommodate for slippage and spreads. And if I can't keep tight stops, I shouldn't take the trade. And so when I look at a stock like ZAPP that has the degree of volatility plus the spreads that it's got, I don't think that I could keep my stop to only 15 cents a share when you've got 20 cents spreads. That's an 18 cents spread. So because of the spreads, I don't think I can manage my risk effectively on the stock. And in fact, I tried to trade it, and I learned that lesson today on just the trades I took on it. And at that point, I said, all right, I should leave this stock alone and focus on the one that's going to be easier to manage risk on. That actually highlights a very important skill for scalp traders. Learn to lean in and double down on what's working and totally leave abandoned what's not working. If you've got a stock that you're red on and is just not working, forget about that stock. Move on. If you've got one that you're finding some success on, hone in on that. That's where you want to focus. Okay, so now you know a little bit of a few of the facts of my trading strategy. So step one is to find the stock moving. And step two then is to find out what the catalyst is. Now, I always like to see that we have a news catalyst such as earnings, clinical trial results or FDA approvals or a new contract. Now we can see what the news headline is right inside Day Trade Dash inside this platform. But again, I'm not here just to tell you guys to sign up for Day Trade Dash. You could use whatever software you want. If you want to go to market watch, you want to go to Google or Yahoo Finance, you can you can use free tools like that and you can find the news. So you in the stock quote window here for the software that I'm using, I can pull up the stock and I can see what the news catalyst is. Now, if I see it, there's no clear news catalyst, then in that case, I understand that this is a continuation setup where the stock is moving higher and I can go back and check was there news back on this day here that sent the stock this much higher and we're still trading kind of in the, you know, the wave of that move that was created. If that's the case, then I can understand that's the catalyst. In the case of meme stocks like GameStop and some of the others, the catalyst may just be that traders like the stock and they're buying it and the price is moving higher. And that's, it's not invalid. I mean, that is a catalyst. So the news catalyst can be very clear or it can be a little bit more indirect. However, there are some multiplying factors. When we have a headline that includes keywords of a current trend, like AI or COVID or something like that, that can create more buying power just based on the headline. And you'll see that some stocks will keyword stuff their headlines with words that they think high frequency trading algorithms will pick up on like Amazon, Apple, Google, Nvidia, right? Big name companies, Walmart. When you have a small company that puts out a headline and they've got one of those big names in the headlines, traders are a little faster to jump up on it. So a headline that includes keywords of a current trend can do better, not always sustained momentum if it's just keyword stuffing, but it can still do better in the short term, which is enough for a scalp trade. If the stock fits within a current hot sector, pharmaceuticals, Chinese, AI, that can also give it more attention. And if the stock is a recent IPO, initial public offering, a recent special acquisition company, or it has a recent reverse split, these can all be daily setups that create more volatility. So once I understand the news headline, and whether or not the stock has multiplying factors, that's when I can begin to move towards step three. Step three is where I perform my technical analysis for taking a scalp trade. So what I'm looking for here is finding a great entry. And I'm going to come back to this question of, does this stock have the potential to go up 50 cents or more? My first profit target is going to be 15 to 20 cents, which would give me a one to one ratio. So if we look at performance by in trade price range, this is interesting. My total performance when a stock only goes up nine cents from when I get into when I exit, well, I clearly don't make a lot of money there, but I've taken a good number of trades on stocks that don't give me that kind of big move. In fact, 2000 trades that fall within that trade that this is the distribution of trades I've taken that fall within this price range of this is how much they move. And then this is how much I've made. So my, the most profit is down here when stocks go up between one and five dollars a share. That accounts for more than 30% of my total profit, right? It's not the most, uh, trades I've ever taken the most are in the 50 cents to a dollar range, but interestingly, 50 cents to a dollar produces substantially less profit than one dollar to five dollars. And I suppose that that makes sense based on the way this is broken down. But I think what's important to understand here is that we're not going to make money if a stock isn't moving up very much. We need volatility and it's easy for traders to jump into trade and think, oh, this could go up five cents and with 10,000 shares, I'll make 500 bucks. And then it drops eight cents and it's like you only had the potential to make five cents, but you lost eight cents a share. That's not a good risk to reward ratio. So when it comes back to risk management, risk to reward ratios are important to understand. Okay. So the relationship they have is that if you risk a dollar to make a dollar, you've got to be right 50% of the time to break even. All right, that's your break even point. If you risk a dollar to make two dollars, you only need to be right 33% of the time to break even. Now, as we know from my metrics, my accuracy is 68%, but my profit loss ratio is about one to one. And so as a result, I'm profitable. My break even point is 50% accuracy. Anything above that, I'm green. So it's 67, 68%. I'm doing just fine. But there could be a trader who trades with 67 or 68% accuracy, but is break even. And they'd be break even if their losers are twice their winners on average. That's not sustainable. And I know that because when I was getting started, I traded with a two to one negative profit loss ratio. So my average losers were twice my average winners. And that was happening because I was stubborn about cutting my losses. And I hadn't developed the educated intuition to get really good at picking the strongest setups and really having the best entries. So as a beginner trader, naturally, out of all the trades you take, right, you're going to have, as a beginner, a fair share of trades that unfortunately, you know, we'll just say this is dollar lost, dollar lost, and I don't know what we have over here. But anyways, you're going to have a fair number of trades up here where you've got big losses. And part of it is, let's say quality. So this is quality over here. And this is A, B, C, D, F. So you've got some big losses that are on F quality setups. Well, why are you taking F quality setups? Well, part of it is because you don't have the educated intuition. You're looking at it and you're thinking, I think this is an A, B or C, you know, or an A or B setup. But another trader like myself would say, no, that's an F setup. So now you've got all these unnecessary losses. And that's what I have when I was getting started. Now, I still had nice trades in here that were nice winners. And you know, maybe this is, this is winner. And then this is loss over here, something like that. So we could have kind of a spectrum where this is your break even. So you want to be focusing on down here, where you're green. And that's going to be focusing on a quality setups. That's going to be the best place to focus. So if you cut out all of these here, if you cut out all the F quality setups, you're probably going to cut out a lot of unnecessary losses. Now it may be true that occasionally you take an F quality setup and you have a winner. It's not common, but occasionally it's going to happen. Unfortunately, that's one of the worst things that you can experience because it's going to encourage you to keep swinging for these terrible trades because there's a chance that maybe it will work. It would be better if the market gave us very consistent feedback. But the fact is the market will sometimes reward you even though you broke the rules, even though you didn't have the discipline, the stock will happen to go in the direction that favors your trade and you win. And that's terrible thing to have happened because it reinforces making bad decisions. If the market always consistently punished us when we made bad decisions, we would stop making those decisions. But that intermittent kind of enforcement is the challenge. So what we have to do is we have to rely on our historical data that tells us beyond a shadow of a doubt that when I trade this strategy over the long term, I am a profitable trader. And when I deviate from the rules, that's when mistakes happen. Now you're probably wondering what the rules are for my trading. So let's start talking about the entries. Okay, so when I'm trading and I'm scalp trading, I'm focusing on trading momentum. I'm trading the trend. This is so important. Many traders overcomplicate this and end up not even trading the trend. You're trading the backside of the move. Let's look right now at a NVS. I am sure there are traders right now at this moment who are trading a NVS and who are losing money. And you know what I would say, you're trading the backside of the move. The front side of the move when the stock was still moving higher was right in here, front side, front side, front side, a little bit of a steeper pullback, rallying back up, still on the front side, we're holding above our moving averages. When you have a moving average crossover here and you cross below the 20 moving average, the price is now declining. You are stair stepping back down. So at this point here, once we broke below that 20 exponential moving average, there is no doubt that this is the backside of the move, at least for the time being. And you shouldn't trade the backside of the move. You're going to get chopped out. You're trading against the trend. Now on ZAPP this morning, I think I did a pretty good job of trading the trend. We had a stretch here where the trend was really strong. I crushed it. And then I stepped back. I waited during this period because, once again, we broke trend. We broke below this moving average. We weren't able to hold it. We had a MACD crossover. MACD is a simple indicator you can use on your trading. When the MACD is open, I like to focus on trading to the long side. When the MACD crosses over, some people will flip short, but for scalp traders to the long side, we just sit on the sidelines and wait. Now we did get a nice rally here. And we got a couple of nice dips down here off of the support line. Those gave me a couple of nice trades. But then I said, I don't want to overstay my welcome. And so again, I'm sure there are traders that are over trading the backside of this move here, but they've missed the boat. So here's what I would encourage. Trade the front side as aggressively as you can. And then once we get that crossover, a moving average crossover, a MACD crossover, or we break below that 20 moving average, leave it alone. Stop. Wait for the next setup. Wait for the next time either this stock goes back to the highs and shows that it has the potential to continue that trend. Or wait for the next stock that shows up. Now, imagine this, imagine a trader traded just the front side of the move here on on ZAPP. And then they completely waited, completely waited, completely waited, didn't trade any of this. But then ANVS starts popping up. And they say, you know what, this is pulling up, squeezing away. I'm going to jump in this right here. So taking these pullbacks and buying for this leg up. Well, they probably would have done well on that because in this range, the stock went from 1350 up to 17. And you could easily be scalping this getting in, getting out, getting in, getting out, getting in, getting out. Now, where I traded it a little bit earlier in the day was right in this area on this pullback. And this was a fine place to trade. The MACD was open. But as it turns out, you know, because of the spreads and everything else, it dropped down. I took a loss. And for me, I called it a day. I didn't overstay my welcome. I stepped out and said, I've done well enough for today at $10,000. This is a good day for me. It's a green day. And I'm at double my daily goal. Now, we'll talk about when to walk away in a moment. But when it comes to technical analysis, what I'm looking for is a stock that is showing one of the following patterns. I like to trade the first pullback as you could see right here. We had that pattern picture perfect on ANVS. This is a five minute scalping pattern. You get that pullback right there. And the way I trade this is I'm looking for the first candle to make a new high. That's the pattern. So we get the move up. We get the pullback bottoming tail here. First candle to make a new high is the entry. And that's where I take a scalp. I can get in right there for that first candle making a new high. I said a tight stop. I don't stop at the low of this pullback. That's too far. I use an arbitrary stop generally of 10 to 15 cents because I don't want my average losers to be bigger than that 15 cents is my average loser 14 15 cents. I don't want the new bigger. So I said arbitrary stop of 15 cents. I get in and I look for that continuation. I'm expecting a wave of buying to come in here because we have a five minute pattern. First five minute candle to make a new high. That's a scalp pattern. Now we could trade that on the one minute as well. The first one minute candle to make a new high right there. You have a squeeze up and a pullback. First one minute candle to make a new high is right there. First one minute candle to make a new high is right here. First one minute candle to make a new high is right here. It's the first one minute candle to make a new high after move up and a little pullback. So in fact on this one we have one, two, three, four of that pattern that happened four times in a row. Then we drop back down here and we pull back down to the 20. So it doesn't look good. Don't trade it down here. Then it comes back up and number five. There's another pattern right there. So that's that same pattern and you got five instances of it. On ZAPP from this morning. Now on ZAPP I can actually do something a little different. On this one I can show you, let me just pull this back up. So I'm going to full screen this. This is going to actually show you the individual trades here. Now it gets a little bit hard to read this but let's see. So right in here I bought this dip, right at this is about 660. So we had the first pop here at six, added on the pullback, a nice little pop up. So that's that dip. This is the same thing. We popped up, we pulled back and then we pushed higher, a little dip pushing higher, a little dip pushing higher, a little dip pushing higher. Now the challenge is this is, I don't like using these charts. They show my entries which is great but the charts aren't very good. So they're hard to move in and out of. So if we go back and look at it here, now it's much more clear. Boom, right there, right? That's the spot. That little spot there at 660. That's perfect. That's the pattern you want to trade. Now if you want to download my micro pullback strategy as a PDF, I will put the link in the description and you can download that. So it's going to cover the micro pullback strategy PDF and it's also got my small account strategy in that download as well. Right here, we've got the half dollar whole dollar and then this is the micro pullback. When we get that pop up that little pullback just for a moment and then the push higher, that's what we're looking for. So I'm going to go back here on this one to right here. So we've got that pop up. This is at the half dollar whole dollar, very common that we see resistance right at these levels. So let me pull this back up here on the chart. So we're going to go for ZAPP here. Let's see. All right. So on this one, we came up first to $6, a little bit of resistance we pulled back. We came we come back up, nice pullback right there, a little pullback right here, and then it pushes higher. Now it ends up pulling back a little bit. All right, so it pulls back for a little bit. Right in this area, notice the resistance that we were having. See how we had this resistance level? It kept coming up to it, not holding dropping back down, back down, back down. So this is an area where we had that resistance. This is a stock that was respecting half dollars and whole dollars fairly well. Seven was the whole dollar right around here. And then it was right around 750, 757 that we were having resistance. So the price was really in this range. Every time it broke below seven, what happened? It got bought up, right? The dips got bought up. But every time it broke over 750, what happened? It dropped back down. It wasn't able to hold. And so eventually it had to break out of this range. And in this case, it broke to the downside buyers didn't come in anymore and sellers took over and brought it back down. But we could have seen just the opposite happen. And if we had levels that we would have been watching closely would have been around eight dollars, the psychological resistance of eight. And what's very common with a lot of these stocks is that when you come up to these areas of psychological support and resistance, you'll see big orders. Now you can see it on your level two window, but I'm going to pull up another tool here. This is going to show you right down here. Look at all these big buyers down at six. 45,000 shares on the bit at six. And then up here at 747.50 and then look at that up there at eight. So all of those sellers are sitting up there at eight. All of those buyers are sitting down here at six. And it's been like that basically all morning. So all morning we've had that seller stacked at eight. They're sitting right at that level of psychological resistance. So the way I would trade this type of stock is I'm looking forward to approach these levels. And what I like to do is I like to catch that dip and then take that squeeze back up. Now, one of the things that a lot of traders struggle with is learning how to anticipate a breakout. Because when a breakout actually occurs, the price can pop over this level so fast that you could miss the trade entirely. So let me actually show you a couple of live trading examples of these really fast breakouts. Okay, so this is a trade from ZAPP this morning. Now when I start on this trade, you can see I'm at $5,200 on the day. I'm currently holding 1,700 shares at an average price of 740. So let's watch how this trade played out. Now the level that I'm watching is 775. I know that there's a seller up around 775. So watch on this dip right here. I'm studying the level two. I'm watching the price here. I enter my order at 780. All I have to do is click the buy button. I take a little more profit on the current position I'm holding at about 764 on the offer. It dips down to 755. But I'm watching right here is the formation of a current one minute micro pullback. So we had the squeeze up on two, three, four green candles. Now we're pulling back a little bit and I'm watching for a dip trade right there. I added to my position and I'm looking for the break through 775 holding. There you go. There's 78. There's 80. I believe that once we broke 75, we would squeeze up to $8 a share and it happened fast. All of a sudden, by the time the price broke, I'd be getting in right here. If I waited for the price to break, I would have been getting in right here. Now you can see I'm up $3,000 on this trade. I had to be in a little early. So let's back that up for a second. I'm anticipating that the first one minute candle will make a new high. Why am I anticipating that? Well, look at this chart. We have four big green candles in a row. The stock is squeezing up. Are we on the front side of the move? Yes. Does this stock meet my criteria for being the type of stock I want to trade based on the percentage change, the volume, the fact that it's the most obvious stock in the market right now at this moment? Check, check, check, check, check. And that means pullbacks are going to get bought up. And as they get bought up, not only will the price go higher, but people who may be holding short positions are going to be forced to cover covering means buying. And so I'm expecting as we break to new highs, each time we break to new highs, the price is going to surge higher. And so I'm expecting that to happen. Now, what gave me the conviction to buy down here at 760 was that there was a 10,000 share buyer sitting on the bid. I saw that on the level two. So I'm looking at the level two. I see the buyers. I see the ask where we've got the sellers. And I saw a 10,000 share buyer at 750 right around there is around 750. And so I thought to myself, if I get in right here at 760, my max loss is 750. I'll stop out if the price comes down here and there's 10,000 shares they're buying, I can sell that buyer. So now I know what I'm risking on this trade is 10 cents a share, 10 cents a share times 8,000 shares. I'm taking $800 of risk on this trade. Now, it's a scalp trade. It's still a very short trade. I'm risking $800, which is 10 cents. How much do I need to make on this trade? Well, obviously, you know, eight cents, I'd like to at least make eight cents for one to one ratio. But if I could make 16 cents or even higher, that's great. Now, what I knew was that there was a seller on the level two up around 75. I knew that because I had seen it when we first came up to this level, we had come up to this level and right up here at 75, there was a seller. So I didn't want to buy at that seller because I didn't know if potentially that was going to be a big wall of resistance and the price wouldn't break. So I got in a little early, I'm waiting for the first candle to make a new high. And then I'm in and I'm holding and I'm waiting. And all of a sudden right there, the buyer perhaps that was at 750 moved their order up. What we know is that there's now a 19,000 share buyer on the bid right here at 760. And so when I see that, I'm thinking, this is bullish. This is good. Short sellers are probably thinking the same thing except they're not thinking it's good. They're thinking it's bad. They better cover. They better get out. So what do they do? All of a sudden, buy orders start executing. Buy orders start executing. And we immediately look at all the green on the tape. This is the tape. That's the level two. We see all of this green right here. Very bullish. We go to 73 76 78 to 80 84 to 85. Now a little profit taking here at 78. Okay, that's fine. We hold 82 on the bid, 86 on the offer, 87. Now we're at 95. I added at 75 and 93, small size using my hotkey. We get 95 on the offer. I put an order, take a little profit, and then I cancel it. I say, you know what? Let's see if this thing can actually break $8. I'm in at $7 and 61 cents, which means right now I'm up 39 cents a share. Okay. This is a great profit to loss ratio right there. Boom. That's a $4,000 winner. And I'm taking some profit on the offer at 814. Now how am I moving in and out this fast? I'm using hotkeys. That's one of the tools that you need to be able to use. We'll talk about that in a second. Now let's go back up here. All right. So we're going to be right in here. So this was where we were doing micro pullbacks. All right. So we did the first pullback right here, which is essentially what we got on ZAPP. It was sort of a hybrid between a first pullback and a micro pullback. The reason I say that is because it happened so fast. It didn't happen to be an entry next to a half dollar whole dollar. But as we came up to eight, that actually was. And maybe I'll highlight that again just for a quick second because that trade up around eight is worth noting because what's very common with these stocks is that we'll see this resistance up around this level. So right up here, I'll just back this up 10 seconds, 10 seconds. So watch right here. We're we'll back it up one more. So we come up to eight. So let's see, where's this trade? All right. Oh, we've got to jump forward. So we're going to come up to eight and right when we're up at eight dollars, that's where we kind of have that. We're sort of like right at that wall. So where is this? It's like right in here. It was when we had seven ninety nine on the offer or eight on the offer. It's fine. It's like right here. Yeah, this is the spot. So we come up to eight and see how we have that wall right there at eight. Now we're going to pull back just for a moment. And there are traders 100% that buy right here at eight. And I actually added it seven ninety nine two for the break of eight. Then taking profits, it breaks through that level. So that's a scalp at the half dollar and whole dollar. That by itself is a trade getting in at seven ninety nine for the break of eight. Okay. So we'll move this back up here. Now, some of this requires an ability to read algos. High frequency trading algorithms account for over 60% of the volume in the markets. So you have to look for key technical levels where you're expecting a breakout. A breakout is a surge of buying volume caused by short sellers stopping out and buy stop orders executing for long positions and manually entered limited market by orders that are executing. So how do market makers and algos respond to these spikes in buying and selling? They pull the offers, they pull the bids that create slippage, which is basically worse for retail traders, but better for them. And it amplifies the move. This is where we will sometimes see these really big swings. And that's what we ultimately want. So my strategy for entry and exit requires reading the tape using the level two to your advantage to see where those big buyers and sellers are to watch the level two to watch the tape and to try to predict where we're going to get these moves. Now, I want to share with you my entry and exit indicators. So what for an entry indicator, I like to see my preferred chart pattern, which is going to be one of the patterns I just showed you, the micro pullback, the first pullback or an entry under a half or whole dollar. By the way, I break those down in more detail with the rules in my PDF. So you can download that PDF, print it out, have it next to your desk. You can start practicing the strategies that I'm trading right now. I always will recommend you practice in a simulator before you put real money on the line. So I then understand my risk reward ratio. I check the level two for possible resistance in the form of big sellers. And then I am pressing the buy button. And I'm looking for the price to move up quickly. If the price does not move up quickly, I timed my entry wrong. It's as simple as that. My exit indicator is if the price stops moving up or slows down, green candles get smaller, that for me is an exit indicator. So as the price is moving up and green candles are getting smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller. Usually that means they're going to come back down. Right? The fact that they're getting smaller shows the trend is getting exhausted. I'd rather see the candles are getting bigger and bigger and bigger. That's what we see during a parabolic move. If I see a topping tail or a doji pattern, same thing. So topping tail, basically, we'll just use a green candle here. So price has been moving up, candles moving up. And then up here, we have this big topping tail. Right? So that big upper candle wick, that shows that the sellers pulled the price back down. So topping tails and topping tails can also be a shooting star like this. Or it can just be a doji or a gravestone doji like that. Any of those topping tails indicate a reversal is imminent. So if I see that candle, I'm going to get out before the reversal, really, well, it's going to be red candle, but you get the idea before the reversal really pushes in full. Learning how to exit sooner is going to be a skill that you'll want to master. Get out sooner. Get in a little sooner and get out a little sooner. Take your profit. You've got to pay yourself. All right. So if I see big sellers on the tape or on the level two, that can also be an indicator to exit. When I try to follow the philosophy of breakout or bailout, when I get in, I want to see the price moving up like right now. And if I don't, I got to get out. And certainly if my max loss is hit, I'm going to exit. Now I use hotkeys for entries and exits. These are the hotkeys that I'm using. Well, these aren't all of them, but these are the simple ones. So shift one is to buy X number of shares. You could type in the number of shares you want. You could do 100 shares. You could do 1000. You could do 10,000. It doesn't matter. It's to buy X number of shares at the ask price with a 15 cent offset for slippage. That is a lot of slippage on most low price stocks, but on higher price stocks, I consider it to be acceptable. Shift to again, buy. And that's just a larger position. So historically, I've used 1000 and 2000 share positions. Recently, I've reduced these to 250 and 500 shares just to accommodate the fact that in a lighter volume market, I've got to be a little more careful. Hockey number three is control plus Q. This cancels all open orders by or sell. It just cancels all the orders. Now my selling buttons, control Z, sell full position at the bid with 15 cents of slippage going down. Control X, sell half of my position at the bid. So I don't have to calculate the number of shares. It's my full position, half of my position, a quarter of my position. These three hotkeys sell on the bid. These three hotkeys sell at the ask price. So when I sell at the ask price, as you saw in some of those trades on ZAPP, I'm getting out up here at 68, 69. Now, of course, I'll get out as long as there's green on the tape and there are people that are buying. If there are no buyers, I'll have to sell on the bid. So I have hotkeys for both, buying, sorry, selling on the bid and selling on the offer. Even if the price drops quickly, and there aren't a lot of buyers, there could still be buyers when shorts cover. So a short covering a position, they could cover on the bid, they cover on the offer. If they cover on the offer, they could buy my shares. So I always try to sell my shares, although I won't always get filled. Now, step five of my strategy is to analyze my metrics. I'm obsessed with analyzing metrics. I want to know about my average winners and my average losers. I want to know what I'm doing right and I even more importantly, I need to know what I'm doing wrong so I can stop doing it. Now, what I know right now is that my average losers are actually about 18 cents a share. It's a little bigger than I said before. I thought it was for 15 cents. 18 cents a share is the average losers. Fortunately, my average losing trade, well, $1,500 versus $1,400 winners, you know, it's based on taking 10,000 share average. This is about $1,400 winners. My average losers aren't 1800, which would be the case with average losing position of 10,000 shares. So it shows that my average losers have slightly smaller share size, which could indicate that I'm not quite as confident in the trade to begin with, which is why I'm trading with smaller size, something to be thoughtful of. Now, of course, we looked at ZAPP and the trades trading the wave up, taking a break, and then trading when I thought it was going to break out again, taking a break, trading when it starts to break out. This is where I like to trade breakouts. Now, I'm okay with buying off of support, but I do want to be careful not to overstay my welcome. So let's talk about the skills required to be a scalp trader. Certainly, you need to have a basic understanding of how to day trade. Now, some of you may have read my book, how to day trade the plain truth. I've got a copy of that right here. I've got my book, but there's a ton of other books you could read. I also got a ton of videos right here on YouTube of how to day trade for beginners starting from zero. So check out those episodes. Now, if you want to check out my classes of warrior trading, that's a full length, deep dive, comprehensive curriculum, by all means, happy for you to check that out as well. But number one, you need to understand the basics of how to day trade. Number two, you need to know how to use stock scanners. Number three, you need to know how to read level two and the time and sales. Being a master of reading a tape will be a very important skill to learn if you want to scalp trade. Number four, you need to be able to follow the rules. Having the discipline to follow the rules, no doubt, critical to long term success. Having the discipline and the emotional intelligence to know when to walk away, that's perhaps even more important. This is a book I'd encourage thinking in bets by Annie Duke, make smart decisions, learn when to walk away. She's got another book that she wrote called trade, sorry, called quick. The power of knowing when to walk away, both of these books are a must read for an aspiring trader and certainly for a scalp trader. You've got to develop the acquired intuition to make quick decisions. It doesn't happen overnight. The best time to learn to start trading was five years ago. The next best time is now because the sooner you can begin to accumulate that intuition, that experience, the better you'll get at knowing when to buy and when to sell. And number seven, I can't say it enough, having the discipline to cut your losses quickly. This is so critical to your long term success as a trader and specifically if you're thinking about scalp trading. Now, I want to keep this episode relatively quick and not go beyond an hour. I want to be comprehensive but mindful of time. So those of you guys that want to keep learning, I encourage you to try a two week trial with me over at Warrior Trading. You can watch over my shoulder as I'm trading the markets. You don't have to do this by yourself. You can learn a lot right here on YouTube watching these free classes, going through my watch list and everything else. In fact, ZAPP was on my watch list yesterday. I put it on my watch list yesterday. I said I was watching ZAPP for continuation and some people would have traded it and some might not have understood the right places to get in and out. So being able to tune in for the live broadcast gives you that classroom experience where I'm right there side by side with you, giving you my real time commentary. I had a bunch more live trading examples that I was hoping to go through but I don't have time for those today. So we're going to save those for another day. All of these are part of my full length curriculum so you're welcome to check that out. And if you haven't already downloaded the PDF, make sure you check that out. There's a PDF that has it's a download with a bunch of different things in it. It's got my small account strategy guide. It's got my micro pullback PDF. So check that out. And I thank you guys as always for tuning in. I hope you hit that thumbs up. I hope you're already subscribed to the channel and I remind you as always that, hey, trading is risky. My results aren't typical. So manage your risk, take it slow, practice in a simulator before you put real money on the line and I'll see you for the next episode. Real soon.